# 104-10165-10075

## Page 1

4-0006

104-10165-10075

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENGERS

FILE TITLE/NUNSER/VOLUME:

CHARIES

CLEMARD TOSEPH

201-14 352022

VOL. HI

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol: III

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: TMIRI ABENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10140

DATE

RETURNED

Se 11678 16 Gus T

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

BETH UCHTENFELS

SUREL BRADY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

In pratifies.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

i... to heater

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

CHARLES, CLEMAND TOSEPH

20/-M 352022

VOL. H

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol:

III

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

THIRI ABENCY SOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10140

DATE

RETURNED

2917G78

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

BETH LICHTENELA

BETH LICHTEUFELS

SUREL BRADY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING UFFICIAL

3ch piiatuifels.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY

BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Political Prisoner

in Hospital

Clémart Joseph Charles w25 taken

from the Kitional Penitentiary in Port

zu-Prince to Haiti's General Hospital.

The former Duvalier banker has been

jailed since Is'il "for political ressons"'

No proper trial was held.

Mr. Carles is suffering from an

acute liver infection ard the phisi-

cians attending him hare warned that

he will die unless he's allowed to tra

vel abroas for special treatment.

This isn't the first time Mr. Char

les was taken from his cell to a hos-.

pital. Last year he was rushed to

Haiti's militury hospital for trement

of the same disease.

Ars. (barles has been allowed to

visit ber busband.

This is the first time the Duvalier

regine has acted half humancly with a

political prisoner. It's been poirted

out that Marie Denise Duvalier Domi-

nique, a friend of jr. Charles, has

often interceded for him.

• Army chief-of-stait Jean-Baptis-

te Hiltira mili soot be

replaced,

say

military sources in Port-zu-Prince.

His likely replacemem? Coi. Roger

St. Alosis.

On a lighter note, the General ran

for corer on September 22 while there

was a revies on the Palice grounds

to commemorate Duralier's "election"

in 1957. Accidentally the loaded auto

matic sesica of a militiaman dent oft

. Many offcials, General Hilaire amon

them, scrambled for protection, Jean

Claude, his mother and their body

guard General Gracia Jacques mere

tremblins, but they kept standing, says

:8-8ourDe that was strading close to

20135.7024

"Haitin i Glace daten"

4- 1Cc, 77

Chiraid CHAC LES

501

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Intelligence Inform ion Report

MARTING JOICE

SENSITIE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND ETHODS ATOLVED

contad a sanded a See bat do conial Doloration Scradle of R0. 1187 Reacion Comina I L A.

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATIEN REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVAIUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORTNO. FIRLT 313/01268-74

DATE DiSTR 18 October 1974

DIAEETORATE CI

OPERATIONS

SECRET

COUNTRY Haiti

DOl

SUBJECT

Early October 1974

Transfer of Political Prisoner Clemard Joseph Charles to

Port-au-Prince General Hospital.

the conmercind to oHail sho has been held policicat

former president of:

prisoner since Adril 1970 on charges of plottine against the

government, was recenily transferred fron jail to the general

hospital in Port-au-Prince. Charles is said to be dying

of

cirrhosis of the liver and

was transferred to the hospital on

orders of Madame Sirone Ovide

Duvalier, mother of

Haitian President Jean Claude Duvalier.

2.

Doctors recormended that Charles be sent abroad for

proper

medical treatment but ine. Duvalier authorised his

transfer opthis occurred only after

to the local hospital.

relatives,

Minister in elion and

Defense Paul Blanche t told the President and his

mother that he would refuse to become involved in this case

and would

not sign

aby papers required of him as Minister

of Interior certifying that Charles had died in prison.

Relatives of Charles still intend to press for his removal fron

the country.

3. Field Dissen: Sent to Port-au-Prince.

3

1

SECRET

OCT FBI!

"CRS: " see Fiels Dilipation

i too final paragraçio

CLASSIFTED 3Y 010116

LAZER

LALCAR HALS

LALPAR

родного

OPS/INT 1, PS/EG 1, LA 4 (4) CI 2

OBJ:KID.

1&1A08ON

TX-1855

NP (EUMEND- 1)

FIRLT-313/01268

T0004

RH: ER

*VG: 1h

ROSS ORSOLSTIENYIOUS

irrains

5) Charle 201-352079

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DEPT OF STATE TELEGPAM

PORT AU PRICE 1630

DATE: 28 KOTEVEER 1972

CLASSIFICATIOT: SECRET

SUBJECT:

PRESIDENT GRANTS CISNERCE TO 89

ELISONERS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

orse

• OF

IDOS ¡TORNATI" REPORT :

BETTY 'A.

VAZQUEZ

EXT.

XH/7/HAITI/ REPORTS

4178/1328

DATE

31 MARCH 1972

cont

NH-20

SICKET

ROSTING

#178

. CA. 5,., CA/ PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,

FR-1, PI 5, IN, ELR-6, DCI. DDP. ADDP, CS/RP

TDCS-314/01961-72

DATE DISTRIBUTED

24 MARCH 1972

DESSEMINATION

LE/INTEL 2 |E/BC/R.

2

PRECEDENCE

KH/EL

HE'L

12: 0/341

XI ROUTINE

BASED ON (ILD. RST-P2QS.)

IX-1534

EVEND

(ETWEND-1)

LIAISON:

*

REQUESTED

OF

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

RECOMMEND EXO

ADAT

NAVY

trical oddre

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EASIC DOCUVENT NOT

MADE AVAILABLE DOI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

SHOW TW

FOR PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO DOMINGO,.

CARACAS, MEXICO CITY, OTTAWA

W

DiSSER ELICTACALLY

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

LISIB PERSONAL ATIN

IRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR WAISON

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CCORDINATINE OFFICER(S)

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

Lillia

Капселен

C/WH//RE

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER

Babut Nopkins

C/KH/RR

COPY NO.

Tele: 201- 357029 i lee in

---

## Page 7

14-00000

ROUTINE

DIBZOTORATE O1

PLANS

SECRET

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

PAGE I OF 4 PACES

STATE/DUR DEA MUCCIME ISECDES SES ARMY MAVY NIA CANACE NIC JESA SOO ONE CRS-

FBI, EXO, DDI

a dl the Exciancon lows Title IR USE. Sors.

NO FOREIGH DISSEY

THIS IS AN INFORMATION FEFORT. NOT FINALY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDS- 314/01961-72

DIST 24 MARCH 1972

COUNTRY HAITI

SUBJECT FURTHER EFFORTS BY THE GOVERIMENT OF HAITI TO BRING ABOUT

RAPPROCHEMENT KITH HAITIAN EXILES •

1.. ON APPROXIMATELY 20 MARCH 1972 LUCKNER C AM BRON NE,

HAITIAN MINISTER OF INTERIOR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE, TELEPHONED

FERMIN JOSEPH, AN OFFICIAL OF THE NEN YORK-BASED, HAITIAN

EXILE NEWSPAPER "HAITI OBSERVATEUR, " AND TOLD JOSEPH THAT HE KAS

DISAPPOINTED AT THE

ANTI-GOVERNVENT OF HAITI (GOH). STANCE

TAKEN BY THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUP"' IN GENERAL AND JOSEPH IN PARTI-

CULAR IN THE 18 MARCH EDITION OF THE PAPER. CAMBRONE STATED

THAI HE HAD HOPED THAT HIS RECENT INVITATION TO ALL HAITIAN EXILES

TO RETURN TO HAITI, COUPLED WITH HIS PRIVATE DISCUSSION

SECRET

NO FORFIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

14-00000

TD05-314/01961-72

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

• SECRET NO FCREIGN DISSEM

(B1A9N3 COTE)

WITH JOSEPH, WOULD HAVE GIVEN THE PAPER CAUSE TO RE-EXAMINE ITS

POSITICN VIS-A-VIS THE GOH.

2. (HEADQUARTERS CONVENT: THE SAVE SOURCE REPORTED IX

TDCS-314/01942-72 THAI DURING A SPITING ON 16 MARCH 1972

BEIVEZY THE TO,

CAMBRONNE TOLD JOSEPH THE GOH CONSIDERED

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" AND ITS SUPPORTERS TO BE THE ONLY OBSTACLE

TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO REUNITE ALL BAITIANS IN AN EFFORT TO BUILD

A NET, PROGRESSIVE NATION. AS A FIRST STEP TO RAPPROCHEMENT,

CAMBRONNE ASKED JOSEPH TO REALIGN HIMSELF WITH THE GOH AND RETURN

TO HAITI. IF JOSEPH ACCEPTED, CAMERONNE SAID, THE GOH WOULD BE

HILLINS TO NAVE HIM TO EHATEVER OFFICIAL POSITION HE DESIRED EITHER

INSIDE HAITI OR ABROAD.)

3.. JOSEPH REPLIED THAT BEFORE HE OR THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

COULD GIVE ANY

THOUGHT TO SOFTENING THEIR POSITIONS ON THE GOH,

THE GOH NOULD HAVE TO SHON ITS GOCH INTENTIONS THROUGH DEEDS PATHER

THAN MERE PROMISES. CAMBRONNE THEN INVITED THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

TO SEND A TEAN OF REPORTERS TO HAITI TO SEE FCR THENSELVES THE

CHANGES NHICH HERE BEING BROUGHT ASOUT BY THE REGINE OF PRESIDENT

JEAN-CLAUDE DUVALIER. BEFORE SUCH A TRIP COULD BE MADE,

JOSEPH SAID, POLITICAL PRISONERS MOULD HAVE TO BE RELEASED. ALSO,

3

SECRET •

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

14-00000

TDCS-314/01961-72

.

PAGE 3 OF A PAGES

SECRET

(cicsrifeastos)

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

lEtIIEM COTIrO."

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" KOULD INSIST THAT ANY SUCH TEAM OF REPORTERS

TOULD HAYE TO BE ACCOMPAVIED BY NEKSUEN FROM OTHER NATIONS WHO

HOULD

ACT AS GUARDS AGAINST ANY PRESSURE THE GOH HIGHT APPLY AGAINST THE

HAITIAN REPORTERS.

4. JOSEPH ASKED CAWBRONNE NHETHER THE GOH INDEED INTENDED TO

RELEASE SUCH POLTTICAL PRISONERS AS .HUBERT LEGROS, CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES,

AND COL. KESNER BLA IN

•AS CAMBRONNE

HAD INTINATED DURING HIS 15 MARCH PRESS CONFERENCE. TO THIS

CAMBRÕATE MEPIIED TRÁI NE COSSIDERED LEGROS TÔ DE A VERY DAXGEROUS

MAN AND THAT HE HAD NO INTENTION OF EVER RELEASING HIM. (HEAD-

QUARTERS CONNENT: LEGROS, À LANYER AÑD SELF-PROCLAIMED COMMUNIST,

WAS ARRESTED IN MAY 1970 AFTER HAVING BEEN SOUGHT BY HAITIAN

AUTHORITIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS. CHARLES, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE

CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND BLAIN, FORMER COMANDANT OF THE

QUARTER STER CORPS, WERE ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR PLOTTING

AGAINST THE GOH.)

S. CAMBRONNE REITERATED THAT IE BELIEVED THE "HAÏTI

OBSERVATEUR" POSED THE NUMDER ONE THREAT TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO

REUNITE ALL HAITIANS. CAMBRONNE ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GOH

.

ALSO BELIEVED GEORGES R I G A U D, A LEADER OF. THE HAITIAN

• SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(cic-oResiton)

"ClarAm qu ARTOL)

---

## Page 10

14-00000

TOS -314/01961-72

PAGE 4 OF APAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(C/=3012c8310)

(BISSETE COMTTOLS)

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT IN MONTREAL, AND A PROFESSOR RENE SAINT-

LOUIS,

WHO IS ALSO LOCATED IN CANADA, TO BE IMPORTANT ENEMIES

OF THE GOH.

6. FIELD DISSEM: SENT TO PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO

DOMINGO, MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, OTTAWA.

110

MAR 2 9

SECRET.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(01010190194229

---

## Page 11

14-00000

ДОЧААСА СОРУ

DissuEs

SLOTTED

SECRET

DEPASDUCT ION

IS COPY PROMISiTED

HAR 17 23 1 4271

AT:

T0C5-314102923-71

HTP 1469

DESSEN UY -

ACTION UMIT

WH. 13

ICT IOW

544

. PER.

FILE. 00- ADpP.

c5/00.81.

5,

га. 41119.

DOP, CA 3, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, DO 4, EUR 5, SOD 3.

SECRET 171719Z MAR 71 CITE PORI AU PRINCE 17429

DIRECIOR INFO PALAMA CITY, PARIS, REP/LANT, SANTO DOMINGO

INTEL

17K R289532

SUPDAIA: EVLEMOE/Z FROM EVLEMONAID FROM SUBJ PORI AU FRISCE

7355 KHO TALKED TO RAYMOND. NO INDEX. FILE:

35-9-11.

FILEDS

171719Z

100910

261357,029

SECRET

elemand friph Charle.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Ir. telligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

D& 289539

•: PAGE 1.OF 4 PAGES

STATENNA DRA MACCINE SETORE NS RENT MATT AITI CRAYONCE MIC NOSE IDO ONE CAS

PECTORATE FOR

RANS

SECRET

COUBIRY

NO FOREIGN DISSON

THIS IS AN INFORMATION RSPORT, NOI FINALLY EVALUATED INTELUGENCE

OTE TDC5-314/02923-71

DEST 17 MIRCH 1971

"HAITI

SUBJECI

: RESULTS OF THE INTESROGATION CF CLEMARD JOSEFH

CHARLES AND KESSER BLAIS

"ACQ

SOURCE

¿ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE

lo ACCORDING IO SRIG. GER. CLANDE RAYMCED, CHIEF

OF HAITIAN AFMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

....DUVAL I ER COMPLETED HIS PERSCHAL INTERROGETICH OF

CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, FOLKER FRESIDEST CE THE

CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND COL. KESHER BLAIN, FORKER

QUARIERRASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARRED FORCES, OF 15 MARCH 1971.

NO FOREIEN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 13

IN 289539

T005 -314102923-78

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(obertsanton)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(FIELD CORMENT: HTP-1467, T0C5-314102737-71

, REPORTED THAT

DUVALIER HAD SEEN BLAIN PRIVATELY ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND BLAIN

AND CHARLES TOGETHER ON 12 MARCH 1971. THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED

THAT DUVALIER HAD AGAIN SEES BLAIN AND CHARLES ON 15 MAECH 1971.)

2. RAYMOND SAID THAT, IS HIS INTERROGATICN OF CHARLES,

DUVALIER APPEARED PRIFARILY COSCERNED VITH DETERMINING IF

CHARLES HAD SERVED AS A FUSINS CHANNEL FROM AMERICAS BUSINESSMER

TO THE HAITIAN CONSPIRATORS. IN THE COURSE OF THE ISTERACGATION,

DUVALIER SHOVED CHARLES A PHOTOCOPY OF A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR

$178, DEB DRAIN IN CHARLES® SAKE. CHARLES ALLEGEDLY REPLIED THAT

HE HAD DELLINGSUITH KAEY FOREIGERS ALD HAITIANS. HE DEFIED

DUVALIER'S CHARGES SAYING THAI, IF HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED, IT

WOULD HAVE BEES A PURELY HAITIAN AFFAIR AND THAI HE YOULD SOT

SULLY HAITI'S HOSOR BY SEEXING HELP FROM FOREIGNERS.

3.

ACCORDING TO RAYACSD, BLAIS ALSO DEGIED ANY FOREIGS

INVOLVEMEIT. HOVEVER, HE SAID THAI ALL THE CABINET MEMBERS

HAD COSSPIRED WITH HIM AT OGE TIRE CR ANOTHER, EXCEPT FOR

AURELE JOSEPH, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTERIOR AND RATIONAL

DEFESSE; MAX A ST OISE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOCIAL AFFAIRS,.

AND ALORE DU BE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 14

4-00000

IN. 289539

TOCs 317102923-71

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

NO FOSFIGN DISSEM,

(8U851a 0012)

AFFAIRS. BLAIN ALSO IMPLICATED ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF THE

... 19-MAS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS AS ULRICH

SI. - LOUIS, PRESIDENI OF THE ASSEMBLY AND DEPUTIES

LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, VICTOR LEVERS CONSTANT,

AND MME. MARCELLE AUGUSIIN. BLAIN ADDED THAT HE HAD

.: ALSO CONSPIRED WITH COL. BRETON

CLAUDE, COMMANDER OF

THE DESSALINES BATTALION, AND COL. FRED M. ARIY, INSPECTOR

GENERAL OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES. BLAIN SAID THAT, LONG

BEFORE APRIL 197D, CLAUDE HAD ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN VARIGUS

CONSPIRACIES WITH CLOVIS DESINOR, FORMER SECRETARY OF

STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LUCKNER CAMBROSE,

AND THE LATE LEON BORDES, AND THAT THESE MEN HAD FORMED

A. CLANDESTINE POLITICAL PARTY WITH DE INOR AS PRESIDENI.

A. RAYMOND SAID IHAT DUVALIER WAS CONTINUING A SECRET

INVESTICATION OF THESE ADMISSIONS, PARTICULARLY IN RESPECT

IO POSSIBLE FOREIGN FINANCING OF THE PLOT. IN RAYMOND'S

OPINION, DUVALIER WILL TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL THE INVESTIGATION

• IS COMPLETE.

SO CONCERNING THE MILITARY IRIBUNAL WHICH VAS CONVENED

IN EARLY MARCH 1971, RAYMOND SAID. THAT THE TRIAL WAS SIMFLY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 15

IN

289539

T00s -314102923-71

PAGE 4 OF i PAGES

..

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(ClaneTs controla)

FOR THE SAXE OF FORM. THE SENTENCES HAVE ALREADY BEEN

DECIDED UPON, BUT THE ANNOUSCEMENT OF THEM AWAITS WORD

FROM DUVALIER. THE TRIAL OF THE THREE DEFENDANTS CURRENTLY

.. IN EXILE, ALPHONSE LAMESS, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER,

..AND GERARD LOI SEWU, IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD ON

1:3: APRIL 19710

Go FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFAII, CINCSO, CILCLANT.

CALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

REPORI CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

RL AT 8Y

SECRET

---

## Page 16

Intelligence Information Report

Thin

DOREETORATE OF

S-E-C-R-I-T :

COUNTRY HAITI

FOREIGN DISSEM

THiS IS AN INFORMAT ON REPORT, POOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

REPORT NO. (S-311/07138-70

DATE DISTR 28 AUGUST 1970

SUJECT PROSPECTIVE RELEASE OF REMAINING POLITICAL

PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR

ALLEGEDLY PLOTTING AGAINST GOVERNMENT

1. ACCORDING TO A HIGH-RANKING OFTICER IN THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD, THE THREE REMAINING POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN

APRIL 1970 ON CHARGES OF ANTI-GOVERNIENT PLOTTING, WILL BE

AMNESTIED ON 22 SEPTEMBER 1970, THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT

FRANCOIS DUVALIER'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT FOR LIFE.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:' CS-311/06776-70 REPORTED THE RELEASE:

OF THE OTHER POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL AND MAY 1370.)

THE PRISONERS TO BE RELEASED IN SEPTEMBER ARE COL. KESNER

BIA IN, FORMER QUARTERNASTER OF THE ARMED FORCES: CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF

5

• 8-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ПАМ

I ARMY

NAVT

All

I! ASA

CRs

(For flold Diatribertin

so finol a

CILICE

2 HI/ PRIN

CALINT

CAL PROP

JINHITOR.

ПИН/ STOM

WH/R

(L HWH/PACY (CINCSO) #

WH/T/Ht

ToraL! IE 8, C1 4, F1 3, CA 3, WH 6 (2), DO 1.

PORT

PRINCE 7103

(IN 151919)

HTP- 1435

EVLEMON

JiTom EVLEMON-1?S

CS-311/07138-70

DOOROIMATINO RELEAS

RR •

chailies 201.357029

---

## Page 17

14-00000

PAGE? OF 2 PAGES.

09-311/07138-70

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

HAITI; AND EDMOND PIERRE -PAUL, FORMER CHIER

PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPREXE COURI. ALL THREE MEX,

CURRENTLY CONFINED IN THE NATIONAL PENITENTIARY, ARE IN

POOR STATE OF HEALTH.

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCIANT.

(ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

.?:.

"""

67 TAE HE 102111

ranite thi

wearinda.

...

201C:

"""

rule horrid

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Intelligence Information Report

DIRECTORA* OF

SECRET

COUNTRY HAITI

PAGE T OF 2 PAGES

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO. (5-311/06776-70

DATE DISTR 13 AUGUST 1970

SUBJECT RELEASE OF HAITIAN POLITICAL PRISONERS

1. AS OF 3 AUGUST 1970, FORTY OF THE POLITICAL PRISONERS

ARRESTED BETWEEN EARLY APRIL AND LATE MAY 1970 FOR ALLEGED

INVOLVEHENT IN THE ANTI-GOVERIMENT PLOTTING OF COL. KESNER

BLAIN, FORKER QUARTERMASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES,

AND COL. OCTAVE CAY A.RD, FORMER COSMANDER OF THE HAITIAN

COAST GUARD, HAD BEEN RELEASED. BY 7 AUGUST 1970, AN ADDITIONAL

NINETEEN PRISONERS WERE RELEASED; MAKING A TOTAL OF 59.

AMONG

THE PRISONERS RELEASED WERE FRITZ THE BAUD, FORMER

SECRETARY OF FINANCE; VOLVICK CA YARD, FORMER DEPUTY AND

BROTHER OF COL. CAYARD; HAT. PIER

BE-PAUL, FORMER

• SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ARAT

MAVY

INSA

1 ces

(ton Frald Dies

Enol parsorando

[CI/IC

CALILL

LCA/PROP

UH/R (12

ZNH PRIN

1J SEOU

JIH/PACK(CINGSOL *

LARSeLLANT

TOTALS

BY CABLE

15 2, CI 9, FT 3, CA 2, WH 6(2), DO 1.

RAIN 7082

(IN 141314) HTP-1432

_EVLEMON

CESILENION -215801

EVLENON-17)

iCS-311/00776-70

PRO

al-Tan

Charles: 201.357629

---

## Page 19

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

(5-311/06776-70

SECRE I/NO FOREIGY DISSEY

DEPUTT; RAVEAU EST I HE, FORMER SECRETARY OF JUSTICE;

SUE. CUSTARD JOSEPH CHARLES; WIE. CLESENCEAU

PROSPER AND HER DALGATER MARYSE; AND ALL OF THE

DETECTIVES OF THE PORT AU PRINCE POLICE DEPARTUENT WHO HAD

BEEN ARREST2D.

2. AS OF 1I AUGUST 1970, THE OVLY PERSONS STILL BELIEVED

TO BE UNDER ARREST ARE CLINARD JOSEPA CHARLES, PRESIDENT

OF THE CUTERIL. BANK OF HAITI; COL. BLAIN; EDWOND PIERRE -

PAUL, FORMER CHIEF PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPREXE COURT;

AND A COUSIN OF CLENENCEAU PROSPER. OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED

IN THIS CONNECTION, ONLY TRO, CITE DOUGE AND LEON

BORDES ARE DEAD. BOTH DIED AS A RESULT OF MISTREATHENT

WHILE IS PRISON.

3. (SOURCE CONMENT: SEVERAL OF THE FORMER PRISONERS,

INCLUDING TREZITD, SEE. PEOSPER, AND PIERRE-PAUL, HAVE BEEN

SEER ON THE STREETS OF PORT AU PRINCE SINCE THEIR RELEASE.

ALL OF THE FORMER PRISONEZS ENCOUNTERED THUS FAR HAVE EXPRESSED

ASTONISHUENT AT THEIR HAYING BEEN RELEASED AND ARE UNARLE TO

ACCOUNT FOR THE UNEXPECTEDLY LENIENT TREATMENT THEY RECEIVED.

ONE UNSUBSTANTIATED RUNOR CIRCULATING AROUND PORT AU PRINCE

HAS IT THAT THEIR RELEISE WAS THE RESULT OF PRESSURE EUERTED

ON THE BAITIAN GOVERNKENT BY THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN

STATES.)

A. FIELD DISSEY: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLINT.

(ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

SER TETAN CURER DISSER

---

## Page 20

14-00000

DEPT OF STATE TOLERAM

PORI AU PRINCE S.?

DATE: 6 AUGUSE 1920

CIASSIFICATION:

CONF IDENTIAL

SUBJECI: RELEASE OF POLITICAL PRISONERS

DEPT OF STATE IQLEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE E-:

DATE: 8 MAY 1900

CLASSIFICATIO:

LITTED OFFICIAL USE

SUBJECT:

MEASUITE TAKEN BY 30: AGAINST ALLEGEL

CONSPIEATORS

DEPI OF SLATE TELEGRAM

PORI AU PFISE 546

DATE: 8 MA:Z 370

CLASSIFICATIOU: UTCLASSIFLED

SUBJECT:

SOLE ESCATION ASSEES CHINARD JOSEFA

---

## Page 21

14-00000

12a8 3923

USE PALiTOUS

EDITIONS

CISLE SECRETARLAT DISSETIRATION

LinancE con lives

I--=

вт.-

- АТ:

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL CORES 2E'

===-=%

= 9"

...

Does.

RARE TO CREMATIN COPY

NONTELE DAI CO 1E, TI

BRANCH

WHa

6605

SECRE I ZSIGDEZ MAY 7O CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6979

DIRECTOR

La ACCORDING MORNING PRESS& MAY, LEGISLATIVE CHAYZER

PASSED DEGEE 1 PAY VEICH STRIPPED FOLLOWS [fASoNs of

HAITIAN CITIZENSHIP AM CONFISCATS THEIR EGODS AT CHATTELS;

CLIMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, CLEMERCEAU PROSPER, ALPHORSE LAKERS,

AID KESHER BLAIN. STATE REASOF. FOR DECRES WAS THAT THESE

PERSONS WERE ACCOMPLICES OF REBEL COASTGUARDSMEN. THIS

DECEE ESSEITIALLY SAME AS OSE PASSED 27 APRIL ACCERJING

DEMICAL IRFATMENT TO COASTGUARDSMEN.

2. PALACE ALSO AROUNCED THAT IT KOULD KOT PROCEED

WITH EXTRADITION PROCETDINGS AGAINST COASTEUARDSKEN BUT WOULD

JUDGE THEM IN ABSENTIA. THIS ACTION FOLLOYED RCTE RECSIVES

BY EMBASSY ON 7 MAY WITHDRAYING EARLIEP. REQUEST FOR

EXTRADITIOR.

30 KET EFFECT THESE ACTIONS LENDS CREDENCE IO IMPRESSION

THAI HAITIAS GOVI PREPARED ACT IN OUTWARDLY LEGAL YAY IN

DEAL ISG WITH REBELLICH. OYHONE HAND, REXCUAL OF CITIZENSHIP

AND CONFISCATIO% OF PROPERTY LEAVES FAMILIES DESTITUTE WHICH

PROBABLY APPLE OBJECT LESSON TO OTHERS CONSIDERING REBELLION

SECRET

¡arles 201.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

FORN 1939

USE tHE MIDISS

EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETAD AT DISSEMHATION

7 PERSON COUT SOTA DO

parence cier I auto

LimoriEs

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

CHINE %

i=-JITED

- =

MADEN:

Dies

CLASSIFY TO ES ARE NO.

O FaIRS I acTuAs TO

LE! FILE, VA

1.1

8..

...

PAGE INO PORI AU PRINCE 6879 SECRET

WHILE AVDILING ADVERSE PUBLICITY SICEIDERED BY WHOLESALE

ARRESTS ALD KILLINES IN PAST. OM OTMEE, LITROPAVAL OF

EXTRADITION REQUEST PROBABLY DONE I! PECOGRITION OF FACT

THAT U.S. WCULD NOT HONOR RECUEST AND THUS NEEDLESS

CONPRONTATION MITH U.S. AVOIDED.

4. IT BOTH RESPECIS, THESE MOVES REPRESENT MUCH MORE

MODERATE RESPONSE THA! HAD BEEN TRUE IN PAST. WHILE THEY

SUGEEST DUVALIER MAY BE MELLOWING WITH PASSING YEARS,

INCLIND EJLIEVE THAT THEY PROMPTED MORE SY HIS BELIEF THAT

HIS POSITION SUFFICIENTLY SOLID TO MAKE MORE DRASTIC

MEASURES UNFECESSARY TEMPERED BY NOTION THAT SUCH MEASURES

MIGHT FROORE ADDITIONAL RESELLIONS. THUS DUVALIEN WOULD

APPEAR OICE AGAIN TO HAVE STRUCK FORKASLE POLITICAL BALANCE

BETVEEN VARIOUS CORTEIDING FORCES AND FACTIONS IN HIS

ENTOURAGE:

•So 08 PERSONAL SIDE, FRAYNE'S LIFS SOMEWHAT

COMPLICATIO BY FACT THAT CHARLES WAS HIS LANDLORD AND EFFECT

OF CONFISCAIION ORDER REMAINS TO BE SEEN.

•st

бо.

NO FILE. GP-1.

SECREI

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-00000

LASSIFICATION

ORIG

UNT

EXT.

DATE

CONF:

•TRANSMIITAL

OF

TDOS INFORSIATION REFORT

BERIL E, BACKRAN FEE

WH/7/HSIII/REPORIS

4222

7 НАЇ 1970

WH

15

SECRET

(arbon filtod la!

ROUTING

#OTK

CA 5, CA. PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D. I0

TDCS-314/04593-70

DATE DISTRIBUTED

PRECEDENCE

7 MAY 1970

X/ ROUTINE...

DISSEMINATION

BASED ON (PD. ROT- PRQI)

WH/REG

WH

7/Hti 7

IPURT AU PRINCE 6870, 6871

WH/R

2 MH:T DR

NH/FI

1

TH

•SDO%

(IN 075915, 075925)

ATP-1406, 1405

WH/CA

WH

PACH (CINCSO)

JEVGISER

6H/7/R

REF: LANT I

ILIAISON:

(EVMISER-8)

EVALUAVION

REQUESTED

STATE

NEMNY

05

NAYY

ATR

HANDUNG INSTRUCTONS

C

RECOMMEND EXO

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT

MADE AVAILABIE DOI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

SHOW IW

:DISSEM ELECTECALLY

TOr

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

USIB PERSONAL AJTN

ZRWAMOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LASON

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERIS)

iR 0150n

C/WH/7/R

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

rettona Fiseil tos

RELEASING OFFICER

C/WH/R

Nohi 74 Riste

COPY NO.

fON 1K-2 use rerces dornons

Clarles 201-357629

---

## Page 24

14-00000

• ROUTINE.

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

075915

075925

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGE

STATE/INR DIA MUCC/MC (SECDET JOS ARMY MAVY AIR) CLA/NUCE NIC NSA SOO CAE CRS MORE JET:

DIRICTORATE OP

FBI

SS/ID

PLASS

I& VS

It's material do tair in to a i, Ma pio Door e stel Laired e or it t mooning of the Fixings Love, Tito TA USE Sace TT one TAL tro

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFOZMATION REFORT, NOT FMALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE TDCS -314/04593-70

DIST 7 MAY 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

03 14 320F279

SUBJECT 1. STATE'S OF COL. KESSER BLAIN, @CARTERNASTER GENERAL OF ARMED

FORCES, AVD CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COUVERCIAI

BAK,

IMPRISONED FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNMEST PLOTTING

2. DENUNCIATION OF COL. OCTAVE CATARD, COMMANDER OF COAST GUARD,

BY LICKNER CANBRONNE, DEPUTY FEOM ARCAHALE

1.. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS AT THE DESSALINES BARRACKS WHO IS

GUARDING COL. KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERNASTER GENERAL OF THE

ARMED FORCES, AND CLEMARD JOSEPH CRARLES, PRESIDENT OF.

THE CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, WHO WERE ARRESTED IN EARLY APRIL

1970 FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNVENT PLOTTING, SAIL THAT BOTH MEN

STILL TERE ALIVE AS OF 30 APRIL. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

TDCS-314/03869-70 REPORTED THE ARRESTS OF BLAIN AND CHARLES.)

2. ACCORDING TO A SOLDIER AT THE NATIONAL PALACE, COL.

OCTAVE CAYARD, CONMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, WAS SUMMONED

• SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

thal

---

## Page 25

4-00000

075915

075925

TDC5-314/04593-70

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

•S-E-C-R-E-T/SO FOREIGN DISSEN

(esses controla)

TO THE PALACE ON 22 APRIL 1970 BY PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER

AS A RESULT OF A DENUNCIATION BY LUCKNER CAM BRON NE,

À DEPETY FROM ARCAHAIE. (HEADQUARTERS CONNEST: TDCS 314/03869-70

REPORTED THAT CAMBRONNE WAS A MENBER OF A COSMISSION ASSIGNED

BY INVALIER TO INTERROGATE THE PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WETK

OF 1 APRIL 19702) WHILE CAYARD BAS WITH DUVALIER, CAMBRONNE

TELEPHOSED DUVALIER 7O SAY THAT CAYARD SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED

BECALSE HE (CAMBRONNE) HAD IRREFLTABLE PROOF OF CAYARD'S

COMPLICITY IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING. DUVALIER ASKED CAMBRENNE

TO REPEAT HIS ACCUSATION THILE HE GIVE CAYARD THE TELEPHONE

RECEIVER TO LISTEN. FOLLOWING THE CONVERSATION WITH CAMBRONNE,

DUVALIER REASSURED CAYARD OF HIS TRUST IN HIS AND REQUESTED

CAYARD TO ARREST THO COAST GUARD OFFICERS DURING THE COURSE OF

THAT WEER, CAYARD AGREED TO FOLLOW THE ORDER, BUT TOLD DIVALIER

THAT HE KNEW THE ADDRESS OF ONLY ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS.

(FIELD COSMENT: ON 24 APRIL 1970, CAYARD LED AN ABORTIVE REVOLT

BY THE COAST GUARD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. SEE IDCS-314/04646-70

AND SUBSEQUENT REPORTING ON THIS SUBJECT.)

3..

FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCIANT.

(ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

" tlesen controle)

---

## Page 26

14-00000

DICT OF STATE IDLEGRAM

POET AU PRIXCE 472

DATE:

28 APRIL, 1970

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

STEJECT:

REPOROS OF EXECUTIONS OF PEESONS ALLEGEDLY

INVOL. ID IN COAST COARD ATTACK

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SUBJECT

OF

SECRET

(9390-80110580;

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

DOC MENT

IDENTAFICATASN

3. ANALYST

A. DATE PROCESSED

RI FILE NO.

3.

DISPATCH OR

SOUNCE DOC. SYMBOL

I. SOURCE CAYPTORYNA, DATE OF INFO.

1O. DISSEMIRATED IN

11. DATE

Ба

A- DATE

EBALUATION

82.

CROSS REfERRED

TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

PERTINENT INFORMATIOM

TRANSFERRED TO

RO FILE NO.

CHARLES

201-357029

SEX M DOB ?

CIT?

OCC ?

ACCUSED OF COUP PLOTTING

036-009-006

PRIN- 06803

15 APR 70

HTP

R 7005080679

FILE IN 201-35-7029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

1. 867 noe

SECRET

---

## Page 28

CLASSIFICATION

TRANSMIIRO

OF

IDES INFORMATION REPORT

SECRET

ORIG.

BERYL E.

BACKNAN

ROUTING

LINIT

WH/7/HAITI/REPO?TS

EXT.

DATE

4222

2 ;

13 APRIL 1970

#104

CONFIRMATION CCPIES

WH

15

TDCS-314/04019-70.

INFORMATION COPIES

CA

FI

5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CJ/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5,

'6, FI/D, IN, SOD

DATE DISTRIBUTED

13 APRIL 1970

PRECEDENCE

WH/REG

WH/R

VH/FI

WH/ CA

WH/7/R

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

OF

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

DISSEMINATION

KH/7/Ht 7

73/ SDOM =

2

WH/7/DR 1 T3/MIAML =

IM/ PACY: (CINCSO)

BEP/LANT =

XROUTINE

BASED ON (ILD.KF., MO1)

PORT AU PRINCE 6798

(IN 060590)

HTP-1379

EVLE:SON

(EVLEMON-19)

LIAISON:

ARMY

MAVY

AR

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

HENTICATING OFFICER

C/HH/T/R

i O1N

CLASSIFICATION

COOBDINATING OFFICERIS)

SECRET

PAMEN FRLED ENO

foras uad citsolen mincut conncas

RELEASING OFFICER

CAA/Rotet H.Rige

COPY NO.

Charles 201-357029

MNi Tae: J.: 2'

---

## Page 29

Intelligence Information Cable

ROTTISE

IN 060590

PAGE 8 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/NE? ELI' MMOC/NE SECDEF SOS LIMY NAVT AN, CHANNADE DUC NSA S0O ONE (8S JETTEIIIES

TRITING

DIRIXTORITE OP

PLANS

* material contoils information afac

bansmaission or portalion

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

THIS IS AN INFORMATIOIN iSPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLGENCE

132 022/279

CTE TDCS - 314/04019-70

DIST 13 APRIL 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI

9 APRIL 1970

SUBJECT DENUNCIATION BY CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COSUERCIAL

BANK OF HAITI, OF ANTI-GOVERNVENT PLOT

ACO

HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (10 APRIL 1970)

FED NO. HTP- 1379

1. ACCORDING IO IR. JACQUES POURCAND, ONE OF THE

PERSONAL PRYSICIANS TO PRESIDENT FRANCIS DUVALIER,

DUVALIER WAS INFORKED OF THE RECENT ANTI-COVERNIENT PLOT, WHICH

SUBSEQUENTZY LED TO SEVERAL ARRESTS OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS, BY

CLEARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COUMERCIAL BANK

OF HAITI, CHARLES DENOTICED THE PLOT. TO DUVALIER WHEN HE REALIZED

HE HAD BEEN "DOUBLE-CROSSED" BY COL, KESTER BLAIN,

QUARTERXASTER GENERAL OF THE ARMED FORCES, HO HAD PRONISED TO

HAKE CHARLES PRESIDENT OF HAITI IN RETURN FOR $100,000 TO FINANCE

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 30

4-00000

IN 060590

T005 314104019-70

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

• SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

A REVOLT AGAINSI DUVALIER. GEISIES LISO BIS PERISED DO

GIVE THE NOSEY TO BLAIN. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ALTHOUGE SOURCE

DID NOT INDICATE HOW BLAIN HAD "DOGBLE-CROSSED" CHARLES, CHARLES

TAS REPORTED IN OCTOBER 1969 TO BE FINANCING A PLOT ZIE

HEADED BY COL. OCTAVE CA YARD, COSHIVDER OF THE COAST GEARD.

SEE TDCS-314/15048-69. ALSO IS OCTOBER 1969, TDCS-314/15083-69

REPORTED ATOTHER PLOT AGAINST THE DUVALIER GOVERIMENT BEING

HEADED BY BLAIN. CHARLES, HONEVER, WAS NOT MENTIONED IN THIS

REPORT AS BEING ISVOLVED IN BLAIN'S PLOT.)

2. FOURCAND SAID TAS INQUIRY IS CONTINUING. HE SAID THAT

HE FOULD DEFEND THE PRISONERS AND ADDED THAT SO ONE WOULD BE SHOT

AS HAD HAPPENED BEFORE, (HEADQUARTERS CONTENT: FOURCIND PROBABLY

IS REFERRLIG TO A SIMILAR PURGE OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS AGAINST THE

COVERAIENI CARRIED OUT BY DUVALIER IN MID-ISOT, "HICE RESULTED

IN THE EXECETION OF 19 ARUY OFFICERS. ) (FIELD CONENT:

TDCS-314/03869-70 AHD TDCS-314/03496-70 REPORTED THAT FOERCIND IS!

A MEMBER OF THE COIKISSION INTERROGITING BLAIN AND THE OTHER

PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE MERE OF 1 APRIL 1970.)

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, ARNY, CINCSO, CINCZANT. (ALSO

5

SEXT SANTO DOMINGO)

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 31

Doc.

-

Minen Filled la s

кобл; і

L: *ES

CATION TO CO FLE NO =

нашо то сь баска.

WH8

Aron na

:99

SE CRE I ASITORE APR 78 CITE PORI AU PRINCE 6755

DIECTOR

9h83= hr3=059504

*j.* COSSIDERISS FACT THAI BLAIN AFFAIR IS FIRST JUICY

ZOISEL LOCAL RUMOR MILL HAS MAD TO CHEN ON IN SOME MONTHS.

RUZO? CIRUIT REMARKASLY QUIET AS OF MORNING 9 APRIL.

STATION ASSETS HAVE HAD HOTHING SEN TO REPORI SINCE

EVYESER/8'S ACCOUNT OF UNCERTAINTY IN COAST

GUARD. EVZI

LEPURE INFCSMASTS WIO SOMETIMES WORK OVERTIME CONCOCTING

RATIONALES OF PAST EVERES AND GUESSTIYATES OF FUTURE IN THIS

I TYPE OF SITUATIOS HAVE BEEN SILEBT.

2. CURRENT BOX SCORE OF DETAINEES COMPRISES BLAIN,

*DOUGE, BORDES, CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES AND HIS ASSISTANT,

'APOLLO EARNIER. ALPHONSE LAHENS STILL AT LARGE ASD

REPORTSDLY DESICCESSELS I SEEKIES ASYLUM AT VARICUS LATIN

ENGASSIES. MIXE. LAFESS IG LONGER IN CUSTODY. ALSO

COXSTANTIN LUPLESSIS HAS BEEN RELEASED.

3O NO HARD INFO AND LITTLE ISFORMED SPECULATION

CURREATLY AVAILASLE ON NATURE OR EXTES! OF PLOT IF ONE

"ACUALLY EXISTED. MOST PERSISTESI RUMOR

IS THAT SLAIN

SOMEHOW FLASHED SEIZE GE-IA AID LAY SIEGE TO PALACE WITH

SECRET

charles 3o1 file. i)

---

## Page 32

4-00000

_* *

When Fin, can

EPACOUCTION DE THiS COPY

QUINY TO ES TRE NO

KANT TO ES FLE Na.

O MERO I RETURN TO

BRANCH

=5.884 54

DER

FILE, Va

stan на

PACE TO POLI AU PRINCE S7S5 SEER ET

PORT AU PRINCE POLICE SOMEHOW PLAYING ROLE OF GROUED

TRODPS IN ATTACK ON PALACE. IF THERE ANY SUBSTANCE AT

ALL TO THIS RUMOR, SEETS ODD THAT EOV HAS MOT MOVED AGAINSI

COAST GUARD. SEERS EQUALLY ODD THAT BLAIN HOULD HAVE BEEN

BADMOUTHING COYBAI EFFECIIVENESS OF POLICE IN TALKING TO

EVREIDS LAST DECEMBE? IF HE ENVISIONED SORE ROLE FOR THEM.

4. OUR TENTATIVE JUDGEMEST AT THIS POINT IS THAT PLOT,

IF ONE EXISTED, STILL VERY MUCH IN TALKING STAGE ASD THAT

ARRESTS PROMPTED. MORE BY INDISCREET TALK BY BLAIN,. CHARLES,

ET AL WHO NOTORICUSLY VOLUBLE TARS REAL CAPABILITY FOR

ACTION. ALSO BY FACI TRAI GOVI FAD NOT TAKEN DECISIVE

ACTIO: OF THIS SORI FOS SOME TIE AND DUVALIER MAY HAVI

CONCLUDED THAT TIME RIPE TO REVISE DISSIDESIS THAT HE STILL

IN SADDLE.

. 5. NO FILE. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

DEPT OF SISTE TELEGRAM

PORT AN PRINCE 295

DATE: 7 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CONE IDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ARRESTS OF COMMERCIAI, BANK OFFICERS

---

## Page 34

14-00000

: UNMED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

benigration and Maturalization Servico

HIAKI FIA.

lostractions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphe

with the father's namo first and the mother's namo following.

Director, Foderal Bureau of Investigation

Department of Justico

Wachington, D. C. 20535

-- VA

DATE

1-27-70

5.119

181:

se alien sisted belon has boen admitted to she United States under the provizions of Section 16

) 15 (A) or Section 10/(a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality As

First Narra

CHARLES

JOSEP

COUNTRY OF CITTZENSHIP

=.S.

HAITI

UNITED STATES ADDRESS Number, Strati, I%. State, Iiy Code)

UNIVERSITY PLACE 2 B. ORANGE, NY

ASTLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF LEEVAL

AF 212

lamber, Steel, Civ, Provinca (Seata) and Copenity of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

RUE LAKARRE 12 PORI AU PRINCE, RAITI

SIeTH PRACE

20-07-39:

CAPOTILIB, HAITI •

DATE AND PLACE GE ADMISSION

MIAMI, FLA. 1-17-70

FURPOSE AND LENGIM OF ADANISSIONI

official dur of states

DESTINATION

USA aboro

Debor a

151 10

REF

∞: CIA

no roquested to farrish any don

2/2/40

BEF

ay subrorevo information rogerding this alien so tha F.B.l.

party Associato Commissi

aned Cont

file in 204- 35702.9

---

## Page 35

4-00000

3h65%

CABLE LECRELARLAT DISTCRIRAI CA

CUSSIPIRO METINGE

SECAIT

TOTAL LOOT

Jaorres

BIT CO

0:- 5a1720

Жатом 0 1

WHS

FRECHRENCE

SECR

E T 291630I OCI G9 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6531

PRIORITY DIRECIOR INFO DO BASE MEN YORK

AXULE DO.TOFS EUMEND

REFS: A. DO BASE NEW TORE 1875(N 70936).

286189874697

B. DO BASE NEW YORK 7185 (NTY 095)

SO INTERESTED TO NOTE THAT RES A CITES IDENSE ANDH

•EF A AS ONLY POSSIBLY GLITING OF REE A PLOI, UHEREAS IDEN H

IS SOURCE OF INFO ON REF B PLOT IN WHICH IDEN F IS ALLEGEDLY

PRIME ACTIVIST. POSSIBILIIY THUS EXISTS, IF THERE ANY

VALIDITY TO EITHER REF, THAI REF B IS SIMPLY EFFORT BY IDES H

ANDIOR IDEN E TO SMOXE QUI INFO OU REF A PLOT FROM EUMENDA!.

EUMEND/L'S ACTION IN INFORMING IDEN M AND URGING BE TO CCORDIBATE

dITH IDEN F SZEMS FUOLHARDY SINCE IT BROADENS SPECTRUM OF LOOSE-.

LIPPED MAITIANS PRIVY TO ONE OR BOY ALLEGED PLOTS.

Z. ALSO INIERESTING THAT BC EMERGES FROM BOTH REFS VITH

ACTION CAPABILITY OF WHICH WE MITHERTO UNAVARE. WHILE THIS

PUSSIBLY MORE CASE OF EURENDII ATTEXPIING CREATE IMPRESSION OF

IN COUNTRY CAFABILITY THAT ACTUAL FACT, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY

ACCIFINAL LISIT ZY OCTOBER MEETING ABLE SHED ON BO PERSOMALITIES

AND ACTIV!TIES.

88CREY

d.24e

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SAMMA710N

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET --

Than Friled In)

• та

2 но

та 8 на.

JIL8, VR

ACTION M

PAGE TWO TORI AU PRINCE LSSI SECRET

3. WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE HOS COMMENIS CA IMPLICATIONS FOR

BC OF APPARENT RIFI BETULEN EUMEND/S AND EUMEND/A.

A. CONCERNING PARA S REF A REQUEST FOR FAST COMMO BEVEES

EVFEND MOS AND EC, HOS MAY WISH COUSIDER FLOATING FRAYHE'S HAME

AS PERSONAL FRIEND OF GIIBRIDE FROM SAIGON WHO RECENTLY ARRIVED

LNSOLD OFFICER BUT PROBABLY WILLING PASS ON PRIVATELY AMY WORD

FROM BC. THIS PLOY USEFUL IN SMOKING OUT EVMEND/I WILLINGHESS

IDESTIFY BC OPERATIVES, WHILE LEAVING FRAYHE FREE TO DISAVON IN

EVENT CIRCUMSTANCES OS GROUND SO DICTATE, THIS ALSO PRESUPPOSES

EUMEND!! CONTINUING LIABILITY AS CHANNEL TO EVMEND ORG DESPITE

RIFT WITH EVPEND/A SINCE WE SEE LITTLE VIRIUE IN OFFER OF COMPO

CHANNEL BELGYING SOURCE OF FURTHER FRICTION BETVEEN VARIOUS EVHENDS.

3. FILE: 36-124-2313.

SECRET

SECRET

Mario## : 099-7739

---

## Page 37

14-00000

27 October 1969

HENORASDUM FOR : Deputy Chief, WH/T

REFERENCE

: Your request this subject

Following our receipt of infornation that Clemard-

Joseph Charles bad taken a list of requirements into

the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince ard asked help in

filling them, Wa Division sent a senorandum on

19 August 1969 to the Chief,

DCS, asking that DCS's

contact with Louis A. Brun (from thon Charles had

received the requirenents) be terninated.

The DCS New York office on 29 August 1969 sent a

memorardum to Chief, DCS,

which reviewed the case

noted

srun had been guilty of sloppy security, and concludec

that no further requirerents would be given him.

This

nenorardun did not, howerer, say that contact would be

terminated; in fact, it said they would continue to de-

brief Brun

WhEnever

he returned from a trip to Haiti.

This nenorandum was sent to Port-au-Prince (HTPN-1347,

17 Sept 1969) •

The Station replied (Port-au-Prince 6496, 1l Oct 69)

that this was not enough, that the contact should be

completely severed.

WH/Branch 7 officers then met with

Mr. George Musulin of DCS to discuss the matter further,

HH/7 officers maintaining that there was more political

action hazard to this contact thas the Fl product

justified.

Musulin agreed to raise the matter with

C/DCS.

The result was a nenorandüs on 16 October 1969

Iron C/DCS to C/WHD which referred to the original WHD

menoranour of 19 August and advised that contact with

Brun has been terminated.

Port-au-Prince was so inforned

(DIR 48277, 21 Oct 69).

' Jases P

Tact illen

C/WH/7/BT

SECRET

EHITERESOOR

---

## Page 38

14-00000

CABLE SECTE " PAIAT DISSTUINAT1501

PRASDNINNIY 80Y19168

NOVANCE COM DISSURO O SLOTTEDI

a ASOLTITO MISSNE

SECRET

FaIl

* in:s:001

кон-д.17Э

•К0ED.

018800 00

ACTION E.

SCa ales, FLE, CAS, CAlReE, CAllere, MesteSE 2,

SECRET ATRIDI OCT 69 CITE DO BASE NEW YOPX 7166

27 Do 18&74095

PRIORITY DIRECICS INFO POF.. AU PRINCE

NO MIAC!

AKULE SOMOPS EVFEND

REF A DO BASE NEW YOPY 7973 (ON 70936)

MANCEL

1. ¿DURCE PAFA @ PELON IS IDEN M OF REF B VIA EUMERO/I. DOI

БА 25 ССТОБЕЕ.

2.

SEPAPATE PLOT FROM THAT DESCHIPED REFÀ IS UNDES. WAY HEADED

3Y IDEF REF E WITH ALLEGED SUPPORT OF UYIDENTIFIED OFFICERS WHO

PLASHISS TO TAKE POWER USING TWO CORPASIES FROM DESSALIBIS FARRACKS.

BLAIR

iDENT PECUESTS THAT EVMENDS LAUNCE FATE INVASION PLOT DIVERSION

SIMILA? TO ONES IN PAST, LETTIMG IDEN E KNOS DATE AND PLACS INVASICE

Bon?

SUPPOSED TO OCCUR. COUP MOULD THEN EE TIMED ACCOPDIRELY. IDEBH

IRPLIED IHAT COAST GUARD ONCE ALERTED COULD BE COUNTED ON TO GO ALONG

WITH INSURGENTS SUI DID MOT MENTION IDEN A REF & IN THIS CONTEXT.

SECRET

---

## Page 39

4-00000

SEC.

- 74025152

60:7

3. EUMEMDID INFSEMED IDEN M IN GENEPAL TEP™S INT PES & PLOT

B32591A:

IS JELLIIC RID ANY ESTION SY IDEN F GROUP AGAIIST PPESIDENTIAL

CLAPD ACULD SE PISTARE. EVPED/I INFOPMING BUPEAU CENTRAL DE. 1D2M

F PLATS AND LEGISE THEM COOADINATE, SAYS EVENDS WILL NOT ATTEMPT

TO OLCAT ISVASION STORY OR APPROVE ANY SUCH ATTEMPT ON PART OF EMIGFES.

4O EURELIA FAS NOT DEEN INFORMED BY EVTELDAI OF INFO PAPA

= PRUNE, ALTEDUGH EMENDIA AVARE TYAI EUMENDS MAS BEEN SEEING

EVE-DIL HAS APPPAISED EUMEND/S DF GENEPAL FEATUPES OF REF

A PLAN EUT NOT OF PAPA 2 ABOVE, RELATIONS PETVEEN EUMERD/I AND EVMEBDIA

APPEAR TO GE AT MAIIP, MENCE SUGGEST GILSPIDE PLAN DETAILED

DISCUSSIDY PFESENT SITUATION IN HC WITH BASE PRIOR TO AFTERNOON

MEETING WITH EUTESD! ON 29 OCTOPER.

S. FILE: 35-124-2513. INDEX DEFER.

SECREI

---

## Page 40

4-00000

CRo+51501910-1-59990110-01

1. 50:0 50:8010.80

AOVANCACOM

2400

1350t

SECRET

MOTTED

4000

слажет то так то —

DA8ка 80-

NYCON

-150

23₴

SEC RE T ZJ¡J23Z OCT 69 CITE PORT AU PRIECE 6928

DIRECTOR INFO DO BASE NEN YORX

230616871599

AKULE DOROPS EVHEND

RETS DO

• BASE NEN YORK 1875(1870936)

DO. ONLY POSSIBLE INDICATION OF RET PLOTTINO IN RECEST

STATION REPORTING VAS DELPHIC CORMENT BY EVLEAON/1B TO E-2

ON 21 OCTOBER THAT VHILE MEY LIKE DESIDOR, RAREAU ESTIME,

FREDERIC DESVAPIEUX MAMEUVER TO REPLACE DUVALILE, IT IS ARMED

FORCES WHICH HAS THE LAST WORD IN SUCH MATTERS. ALSO THAT

THERE ARE TIMES, IN POLITICS, WHE: E/LE MUST BE RETICENT.

DESPITE HIS CONSIDENCE IN E/Z'S SUTENTIONS, ALSO WHEN ENZ

LEAST EXPEETED IT, EJIA WOULD TELL HIM EVERTTHIMG THAT WAS

GOING OH. REMARKS HERE MADE IN MESS TO ME MUSIC MONT

IMPACT OF RECENT NOUVEAU MONDE ARTICLE BY ANTOINE HERARD WHICH

BEING INTERPRETED BY E/IB AS DUVALIER PLABT FORESHADOVISS PURRE

• OF MORE CORRUPT ELSMENTS IN COVI. GREACIION OF E-S, 1B AND

16. T0 ARTICLE BEING DISSEMEDS... THUS LILD'S REMARKS MAY SIMPLY

HAVE REFERRED TO THIS SORI OF PURRE INSTEAD BROADER PLOT.

HOTED REF.

DO FRAYNE HAS APPOINTMENI VITH IDLI B ALI DISA 27 OCI TO

SECRET

---

## Page 41

4-00000

o:+01218811401

comance com

от -

I emer

12ore

SECRET

0ut-0909-49-38

скавт то тте по.

1-00 to o0s da

118 00 =257 тО

та10

PAGE THO PORT AU PRINCE 6520 SEC RE I

DISCUSS MEN LEASE ON HOUSE HE OCCUPYING. PLAN USE RESTIBA

TO OPES LOU KEY CHAINEL TU IDEA SO REALIZE IMIS DUPLICATES

EXISTING CHANNELS OTHER LUPURE OFFICERS AED IDEN B DOTORIOUSLYO

INDISCREET, BUT JAY BE OF VALUE IF RES PLOT JELLS.

SO ALSO PLAN PAY COURTESY CALL OS IDES A WHO LIVES THO

HOUSES AJAY IN CONTEXT GETIING ACQUAIaTED WITH MEIGHBORS..

4. RE IDEN I UNO ENCRYPTED EVLEAS/I, BELIEVE UPCOALIS

PERLITE ONE VISIT RAY AFFORD CHAICE GET FIRSI MAED READING

HIS VIEWS. OR FRAYHE MAY APPROACH DIALETLY AS PERSON ILEBAST

SUGGESTED DAS VELL. INFORMED ON RAILIAS AFFAIRS. PLS ADVISE

IF HAS HAS DGJECIIONS IO LATTER TACE. ..

SO ACCORDINE BILATI, ¡DEN D REE iS PROSABLY ROOR MEAT

THORAS, PDOB, SI. RAZO, HAITI, S JUS 3S; GRADUATED HAITIAN

MILITARY ACADEMY '36.

6. UPON CLEARANCE FRON HOS, YILL PASS SUBSTANCE

PARAS 2 AND 3 REE TO CHARGE.. ALSO PLEASE ADVISE WHEN LAGOLD ...

INFORMED.

SECRLI

"BEL

SECRET

---

## Page 42

14-00000

. че

LOISSIFICATON

TRANSHITIAL

of

TOES INFORMATION REPCHT

#179

RCUTI:G

SECRET 73

ORsG.

BERIL E

UNIT

BACHNIY

WH: 7/ REPOPTS, HAITI

EXT.

1222

5

DATE

23 OCTOBER 1959

CONFRMATON ESPS

18

15,47-69

TDCS-314/70936-69

INFORMATION COPIES DCI, O/SC1, DIP, ANDP, CS/AF

... CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, PI 6, PI/D, IW

DATE DISTRIBUTED

23 OCTOBER 1969

PRECECENTE

INATION

WH, REG

WH R

WH/FI

1

WE/T'At 7

2

WE/7/ DR, 2

1

WH/CA

WH/7/R

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

CE

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

X I ROUTINE

BATED CN (F0.0%.,pous.)

DO BASE NEW YORK 7075

(IN 70936)

ETHEND (EVIEND- 1)

LIAISON:

AZKY

NAVY

AIR

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS TD IS BEING TRINSHITTED TO PORT AU PRINCE, SANTO DOMINGO,

PANAKA CITY, REP/LAVT, AND DO BASE NEW YORK.

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICE

COORDINLATING OFFICIO)

CLASSIFICATON

SECRET

экон

COPY NO

charles 201-357029

---

## Page 43

4-00000

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTI VE

IN 70936

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

DIRTCTORATE OT

PLAYS

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

SECRET

no of io Encionaço Lone Tato IP, U.S.C. State, 7993 vure TAl, tho

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

23 21 01209763

CITE TOCS- 314/15048-69

DIST 23 OCTOBER 1969

COUNTRY HAITI

:..SUBJECT PLANS BY HAITIAN MILITARY OFFICER TO OVERTHROT THE DUVALIER

GOVERNMENT AND TO ESTABLISH A JUNTA

1. ALTHOUGH NO SPECIFIC DATE HAS BEEN GIVEN FOR THE ACTIOS,

COL. OCTAVE CAX ARD, CONNANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, GEN.

GERARD CONSI ANT, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARNED FORCES, AND

COL. GRACIA JACQUES, CONLANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD,

ARE LAYING PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERWMENT OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 44

14-00000

IN 70936

TDCS-314/15048-69

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

•SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSES

1d1RYET COMETOLA)

DUVALIER AND TO ESTABLISH THEMSELVES AS A JUNTA. THE

PLOT IS BEING HEADED BY CAYARD AND IS BEING FINANCED BY CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF

THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI,

IN THE AMOUNT OF $600,000.

2. IN THE ORIGINAL PLAN, THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD NAS REGARDED

AS A MAJOR OBSTACLE TO THE SUCCESS OF THE PLAN AND, THEREFORE,

CAYARD AND CONSTANT AGREED TO INCIDE JACQUES IN THE JUNTA ON THE

GROUNDS THAT IT WAS A NECESSARY EVIL. CAYARD'S ONLY CONTACT WITH

JACQUES, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN INDIRECTLY THROUGH CAPTAIN THOMAS

(FNU). (HEADQUARTERS COUMENT: THOMAS PROBABLY IS IDENTICAL WITH

MAJOR JEAN THOMAS, EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD.)

3. BESIDES THE ASSISTANCE THE PLOTTERS HAVE OBIAINED FROM

INSIDE HAITI, THEY ALSO ARE SEEKIKG SUPPORI FROM HAITIAN EXILES

WHO ACTIVELY OPPOSE THE DUVALIER REGIME.

4. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IN MID-SLAY 1969, A MILITARY JUNTA,

WHICH INCLUDED CAYARD AND CONSTANT, WAS BEING FORMED TO OVERTHRON

THE HAITIAN GOVERNENT. AT THAT TIME, IT WAS NOT CLEAR IF THE

GROUP HAD ACTUALIY APPROACHED JACQUES, BUT IT WAS THOUGHT THAT

AS COVANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD, HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(cians Nonston)

(8153007509970192

---

## Page 45

4-00000

« 70936

TDCS-314/15048-69

PAGE 2 OF 3. PAGES

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN:

OSTER NECESSARY SUPPORT FOR THEIR PLAN. SEE TDCS-314/07619-69.

THE PLANNING IN MID-MAY 1969 WAS FOR ACTION IN THE EVENT OF

DUVALIER'S DEATH, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE PRESENT PLOT IS IN

PACT ONLY A CONTINUATIOS OF THAT CONTINGENCY PLANVING.)

5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT

PORT AU PRINCE AND SANTO DOMINGO)

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(disema coasrals)

---

## Page 46

4-00000

3

##::+ + 5550-809106

alT, 006D

wd

NOUNCE COTT

CRISES MIESICE

-=--9i2

SECRET

19as.es Paired dal

DIANENETiCH CA TA, 8 ESTH ARCA: ".:CO

100100

300

oo08 e0.

1240

01888080-7

Brice. ya.

SECRET ZIGZZZ OCT 69 GIIE DO GASE MEN YORK 7876 CALLENSWORTH

ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR IRFO PORT AU PRINCE

2200189870937

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

REY DO BASE NEW YORK TETS (eN 70936)

IDENS

AS OCTAVE GAYARD

B. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES

C GENERAL CONSTANT

DO CAPTAIN FRU THOPAS, PROSABLY JEAR

E. GRACIA JACQUES

F. KESNER BLAIN

6. ROLAND MAGLOIRE

HO FARCEL BONY

Io BERTHONY MADHERE

Ja FNU RIGAUD

XO FRITZ HYACINTHE, DOB CA 1929, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF HUBERT LEBROS;

EMPLOYED EITHER AT BANQUE COLOMBO HAITIERE OR BANQUE NATIONALE

DE LA REPUBLIQUE.

Lo MILIER CADET, BROTHER OF FRANCKEL, DPOS CARADA, 21 JUNE 1956.

•EMPLOYED SNEM PORT AU PRINCE.

SECREIST:.

SECRET.

---

## Page 47

14-00000

$35

Ziss Lanes; derst

Jo. 24C

6881

80880 C018000:00.

Oa10de16 Cairore

uite

HE CHET DISEIZ OCT

53 CITE. DO FASE LED YOPY 1A75 SILLEYSWOFTH

ICTING)

"RIOFITY CAPECTOR DESO POPT AU PRINCE"

12041857055658

ET DO EASE NEG YEX 7e75(1076932

1. SOURCE PARAS 2 THRU A BELOW IS EUPEAL CEMERAL iLET PEPORTS

ATES 16 SEPT INAU 1I OCTODEP, PEPORTS ENCORDED IN PRIVATE ALMEPICAL

COS USED PERKEEN ENTENDS AND EC, MAILED TO ENTERD/S QUEPT LETTEP

ROP UNICH SAME AS THAT USED EY EUMOUNTAI.

E. IDENS A, CANO E PLASMINO GUESTHACE DUVALIER AND SET UP

¡LUES AS JUNTA. TIFING NOT GIVE!. IDES & FINANCING THE PLOT TO

INE DE 6698, ERN. DESIDE MISTING PAPTIES APE IDENS D AND POSSIPLY F.

ISIDE VISTING PAZTIES ALE EVENTS, ENMENOLA IDENO, AND POSSIBLY

-EN MULO ESOTHER OF IDEN F.

SO CHFOSSLOGY DF SC INVOLVIMENT IS AS FOLLOWSS EI AUG, BE

ITING FITH IDEN BE UHO INDICATED LE PLANING SUPPORT COUP MICH

¡CIPISTT FUT MEEDS HELP IN REMOVIE COSTACLE OF PPESIDENIIAL GUAID.

: GAVE FIP MAMES OF FELIAELE IFDIVIDUALS AT SPECIFIC POSTS AND

IGGESTED APPROACH TO IDEN E VIA IDER DO 11 SEPTE"GER, BE FEETING

•IM IDEY & UHO REVEALED THAT HE DEALINE NITY IDEA C. C PRACED

SECRET•

---

## Page 48

14-00000

JENNET

----

•TO LONPECT CONTACT MITE TOEE CUIA LOZO 1. DE DO I SEPTEDEO,

E CUTTICT WITN JOFP A, LEASHED THAT IDEN A IS STADIME PLOT. 5E

SUED FER CONTACT MITM DDEN A. GS SEPTEMEEF AND E ACTOSER 30

2271:G VITE IDEA. 23 SEPTEMSER, LAST EC MEETING EITH DENO.

ROY INAT DATE TO 1I COTOPEF OILY EC CONTACT NAS IDEN A. AS OF 1I

COZES EC FELT HAD 'COMPLETED EROYER POLE IN PLAB ANO UNDERSTANDS

MAT IPSIS A AND C ACFEED TO I CLUSIDN OF IDEN E IN JUSTA ON GROUNDS

HIS NECISIARY EVIL, IDEN A MAINTAIIS IND IPECT CONTACT WITH IDEN E

IA IDEA D. IDEN C IS IN DIFECT CONTACT NITY IDEN 1. MAMES OF

ITTIG GUARDS OTHER THAM IDEH-A MCT DISCLOSED BY EC TO EVEROS.

A. PC TEPEES WHO CAFPYISE BALL THIS OP IS IDEN J.

SO PE FEGUESTS FOLLOKISG ACIION FROM EVENOSI ESTABLISITERT OF

AST THO-HAY CORNUNICATICHS ESTUEEN 9C AMD EUTEROS HA; AND

AUNCHING OF DIVEPSIONARY ACTICH TO DISTPACT DUVALIER ATTENTION.

JENDS I AID A PEQUEST PUROCY ASSISTANCE ON FIRST ITEM AUD ADVICE

• SECOND.

S. EVMOUSIA PLARSING TRIP TO MYC 2 MOVEMEEP. EVERDS MOULD

•CEPT MI% AS COMMO LINK TO BE BUT UNSURE MON BE WOULD FEACT TO

¡XING HIM WITTING. EUMEND/! POOPOSES THO OTNER ALTEPHATIVES FOR

¡TERREDIARY, IDERS X AND L, COULD ASCEPTAIN SPOP BC SY TELEPHONE

"HETHER EITHER OR SOTH ABLE TSAVEL TO US ON SHORT NOTICE, EVMENDIA

• ITITUDE THESE CANDIDATES NOT YET XHONY.

TO. REETIME SCHEDLEO FOP EUMENDI I AND GILBRIDE FOR 29

CTOBER.. HILL ADVISE RE EUPENDIA AVAILARILITY SE OCTOPER.

LELANO PRETING EVNEEDIA 2S OCTOBER.

ECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 49

4-00000

ESSATEFU

ГОТААДОРТУ:

SEEPET

anek

UNIT:

ENT:

DATE:

LEHMAS: gt

TH/T/HT

1349-5595

21 OCTOBER 1969

CABLE SECRITAALAT DASSZRASIATICON

F8 .

IT -

cont

• FILE RID

• FILE IN CS FILE NO. -

•10

Г

SECRET

21 23

| 2 Can cg

• PORT AD PRISCE

REF: PORT SU PRINCE £496 (IS 63672) *

1. ON 16 OCIOBER, MODISA ADVISED ARTLE THAT IT

HAD TERMINATED CONTACI KITH SUBJECT OF RET.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

42 ton)

pederanca nurtball

CITE DIXECTOS

4827.7

7

Spice?

HE COSLIENT:

*Subject of Ref is Louis A.

sals, contact

of Clesard Joseph CHAPLES.

WHITIAT

кром.

TILLIAS

C/AHD

BROB

DAVID TAS

SHO

TABASARS OFFICEN

CS COPY

DERATIMO CAFICENT

21 00t68

SECRET

AUTHENTICATIRO

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEA

11 comma

201-357029

---

## Page 50

14-00000

HE TRADE 70019

TS. Li COPES:

SECZET

70т:

B. LEHMAS: 8t

1319-5595

3A5T:

21 OCTOBER 1969

ACE SECRESUTLAS DeSSERIALATION

_FER _

O 00 20E2

1 RETURA TO.

MACH FEAS

•to

FILE. 08.

БАЗАРЕНІЙТ

SECRET

2183 dizlas

CITE DIRECTOR

- PORT AU PRINCE

REP: PORI SU PRISCE 6496 (IN 53672)*

1. OF 16 OCTOBER, NODISA ADTISED SELLE TEAT IT

EAD TERIIYATED CONTACT WIEN SUZJECT OF REY.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

BAD CE MESSAGE

trace erration:

48277

7

52

*Sabject of Bef is Louis A. BRUN, contact

of Cienard Joseph CHARLES.

кИіля

WILLIAN P. BROS

C/THD

SHOCK

CULASTED OFFICER

SECRET

ICTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUMAS OFFICE IS PROMIAITED.

---

## Page 51

14-00000

ONCLASSIFIED

SHARPNAL

OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBEO: Opsional)

DCS Contact With Louis A. Brun

@SMusalio/ba

Des /oper & be Support Stats

900 Key Bl58

TO: Orca dariopatice

DATE

britaine!

RECEIVED

EXTENSIOM

2268

RENAIS

COMF ENTIAL

! LE SECRET

на

Case 47540

Outt

16 October 1969

to orone

See Attached Menorandus.

DO/DOSL

Acting Chief, # DIvIsiOn

3 D 3107 Headquarters

C/WAIF,

Water 2000 52 1141

2000

7.

6/10017

SC/WH/Z

Ruth ih!

Och.

21985

21087

1

Pls. aduse P-au-Prince

Done.- by

DIRECTER

48277

did 21 0c5 1969

8.

10

18.

12.

1S.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE OMLY

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

easter men so

16 October 1969

HEMORANDLH POR: Acting' Chief, Westera Henisphere Div181o0

SUBJECT

:DES Contact With Louis A. Brun

REFERPACE: 19 August 1969 Menorandus TO DOS Eros Wa

te have terminated contact with Louis a. Brun.

so is 1 call

Director

Domestic Contact Service

SECRET

кокотадое

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CABLE SECRITARLT DISSEMIYENTION

MASON UNT NOTIO

RoveNCICOT

ISBURS

RLOTTRO

DISARM ON.

•ACTION

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOT COO

SECRET e

(Whan Filled 1n)

REPROQUCT ON OF THIS CORT FOL-ETES

сяти T0 PILe NO

х-тот то тых то...

FILE NO EAST. TO

218 CEIL

•SECRET 102219Z OCI 1969 CITE PORI AU PRINCE 6496

(CHAIDEZ ACIING)

DIRECTOR.

RYBAI

REFS HTPW-134T, 17 SEP 69

do APPRECIATE REF RESPORSE BUT CANNOI SEE HOW

DcS

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN WODISH AND LOUIS A. BRUB IS

..ALIERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES HOR IS THE POTENTIAL FOR COMPROMISE LESSENED.

THE FINE NUANCES RE WODISH HANDLING OF BRUN@EBRIEFING

BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE

UTTERLY MEANINGLESS SHOULD BRUN WIND UP IN FRONT OF A

FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOI SEE

HOW RUROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

• 2. HARDLY A VEEX GOES BY BUT THAT LAPURE IS NOT

' MADE AWARE OF AMOTHER PLOTTING EFFORI BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CHARLES TO OVERTHROY DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PIICH STRANGELY REMINISCENT OF THE

ONE WHICH IMMEDIATELY PRECEDED HIS RREST IN 1967.

CHARLES HOW CLAIMS SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

1100763 # 63672

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CARLI SECRETARIAT DISSENAMATION

MUTTONUAT DOTINO

1049 -1 -494

ISSUED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOYAL COMES

CROUS!

SECRET -

(Wran Falod In)

0-01 0oc-

REPRODLCTDN OF THIS COD PEEM.B.TED

INDEN:

O res J to

CLASSITY TO MILE NO -

п-тЕт то тые на.

PILE RIO IRET. TO

550.

JAIDCOPY

FRL.VR

DOUTING ANOVOR INITIALS- SERN BY

DESTROY D5-6

PAGE 2 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

GUARD, AND DESSALINES BAITALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS

IO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AHD CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-ID INTO THE

HARBOR TO STARI LOBBING SHELLS AI THE NATIONAL PALACE.

PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FUEL FOR GC-1D, AND PAY-OFF IHE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3. THE FACT THAT VODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

INVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS

ROT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1969,

BRUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM

PLOTIING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LNHARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 92376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED M. OTT ING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE IHAN

ENOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPAICH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE IO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY.

A.. THE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED

SECRET

3

---

## Page 55

14-00000

NOMADICON

SLOTTRO

TOTA COMES

SECRET

(vicon Filled in)

+ 197060T.00

REPROD-C-DN OF THIS COPY I9CMiB:TED

INDEE

бавитИ то чізя но-

х-ияя то бая по.

URID COPY

INFO:

FILE VR

MONOT 471513-585180

•RAvENE: 00570=86

PAGE 3 PORI AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

PARA 2, 6. REF ACIUALLY. TEND IO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERNAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY BRJH

IN DIRECTOR 92376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTIING GROUP WHO

WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDESTIFIED

AS PLOTTIMS VITH CHARLES AND BRUS PER DIRECTOR 97813,

20 APR 66.

5. 5. STATION HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC

IFORATION PRODUCED BY BRUM AID CAHNOI SEE HOY IT PROVIDES

AMYTHIHG BOI KHOWN (RUMOR OR FACT) TO LAPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECONCHICS REPORIING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN

HAS NO HORTHWHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORIED BY INCIDENT REPORTED

PORT AU PRINCE 6323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

OR BRUM BY VODISHO

6. BRUM IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPAREHILY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUM FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSE> IN HAITI,

THIS ACIIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISAS FOR RUROCK.

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERIÇAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUZ WHILE

HE IS IN HAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAITIAN. LNPURE CAM BIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 56

4-00000

CARLI SECDITARLAT DISSENIIRATIOA

CLASSIMIES MES

TOTM CORES

AOURHCZCOT

• DESSEM BY

_PIO com

(Wina Filod In)

REPROQUETDR OF THIS COMY PEÇA BITED

D

INDEX:

CLABBITY TO TIRE NO -

Х-ЧЕт тО тая нО.

PILE RIO LOTT. TO

FILE.VR

PAGE 4 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

HIM NO PROTECTION.

7. FILE : 201-357029.

"SECRET

O SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CROLE SECRETARAT DEPARATIO

WUNT NOTIN

оскемськот

Janes

AT-

ISSUTED MESSAGE

TOTA COPE

SECRET

REPROQJE-DA CE THIS COPY PRE-RITES

INDEE

I 11s O 10

CAST TO FILE 10....

х-хат то пех по..

FILEKD:

ONSEN TY

BRANCH D

TRIHS

218 CEIL CLINS

Jules chestsa

SECRET 182215Z DET 1969 ETE POURSE

AU PRINCE 6496

' (CHAIDEZ ACIING)

250 1

118169863672

DIRECIOR

10H/Z/1T

RYBAT

REFS HTPJ-1347, 17 SEP 69

1o APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW

RELATIONSHIP BETVEEE VODISH AND LOUIS!

A. BRUN IS

ALTERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH HEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES JOR IS IHE POTENTIAL FOR COMFRUISE LESSEÑED.

INE FINE HUANCES RE VODISH HANDLING OF BRUNCDEBRIEFING

BUT HO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE IO US BUT WILL BE

UTTERLY MEANINGLESS SHOULD BRUR VIND UP IN FRONT OF A

"FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE

•HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION IO DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

20 HARDLY A VEEX GOES BY BUT THAT LUPURE IS NOT

MADE AVARE OF AMOTHER PLOTTING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CHARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PIICH STRANGELY REMINISCERT OF THE

ONE UNION IONEDIATELY PRECEDED MIS PAREST 1N 1967.

CHARLES NOU CLAIMS SUBSTANTIAL

SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

ESCOPY 201-357029

---

## Page 58

14-00000

RETARA! D

10тH,05

_BLOTTES

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET ni

(When filed in)

REPRODUETON DE THIS COPY PEDA BITED

IADER:

• тев D мо

CLAssIT TO FUE NO-

X-RATE TO PRIDE.

1490:

FILe. VR

ROUTING

FRANCH O

048-707386

PAGE 2 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECREI

GUARD, AHD DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS

TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AND CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-I0 INTO THE

HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AI THE NATIONAL PALACE..

PLOTTINE GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SHALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FUEL FOR GC-IB, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHI PEOPLE.

3o THE FACT THAI VODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

INVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS

HOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1959,

BRUN SERVED AS AR INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM.

PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LIKARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGRITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 82376. BRUM MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED PLOTTING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE THAN

EBOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPATCH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUM HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY.

A. THE TVO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED

SECRET

---

## Page 59

14-00000

CARLE SECRETASLAT D

orna con

SLOTTO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL CORES

CROUP!

SECRET To

(When Fled In:

86-: 17002109

REPRODUCTION ON THIS COPY ARCH: BITED

INDRA:

ves 3 10

CLASSITY TO MILE NO

X-RES TO FILI MA-

пск то С лЕт. то

LAIDCOPY

FILEVA

POUTING ANDIOR TON

! 8

1101

BRANH D

•PAGE 3 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

PARA 2, C. REF ACTUALLY TEND IO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERNAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS VAS IDENTIFIED BY BRUN

IN DIRECTOR 82376 AS MEMBER OF PLOIIING GROUP WHO

WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDENTIFIED

AS: PLOTTING VITH CHARLES AND BRUM PER DIRECTOR 97813,

20 APR 66..

5. 5o STATION HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC

INFORMATION PRODUCED BY BRUN AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES

ANYTHING HOT XHOWN (RUMOR OR FACT) TO LAPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECOHOMICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN

HAS NO WORTHYHILE SOURCES IS SÜPPORIED BY INCIDENT REPORTED

PORT AU PRINCE 6323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LIPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

O BRUN BY NODISH.

6. BRUM IS ADMIITEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPARENILY UNCONTROLLED. AS LOME AS MODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUN FROM CORTACIING CHARLESCOR AHYBODY ELSE) IN HAITI,

THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISES FOR RUROCK.

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT VHILE

HE 18 IN HAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAITIAN. LIPURE CAN DIVE

SECRET

iL

---

## Page 60

4-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

Cu

• "котеноя коти

ISSUED

BLOTTED

133AGE

TOMKICORES

SHOUT

(Whoan Fulled thi

SECRET E

REPOCLET ON OF THIS CODY ROCH BITED

res 0 то

я-9Eя TO OLE NO....

"As com

FILE FR

". PAGE A PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

HIA NO PROTECTION.

T0 FILE : 281-357829.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 61

4-00000

108:

Г

R. BERG ET

WH/T/HT

1349-5583

15 MAY 68

SBCRET

0 00 7a

---sa 0009

-0 -

lalors. odal a 475854-935521

SECBIT

PRIORIST PORT AU PRISCE INFO: SANTO DOUTICO DO MANE INE MAR

0237 г

REP: PORT AU PRINCE 6084 (IN 57930) 0

1. GIVEN BBLLÜ 18 TEXT OF DES REPONS CONCERNIHO

BIQUEST BY ELITIAN OPPOSITION COUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEN

VITA U.S. OPTICIAL, DES REPORT CARE FROM LOUIS A. BRUN

OK BERALE OF CHENARD JOSEFA CHAILI8, BRUN IS CHARLES' NEW •

TORE LANTER AND BUBIREBA REPARABITATIVE. DES TAB ADVIBER

TRAT VE HATE NO INTIREST IN CONTACTINO ANT REPRBSNUZATIVE

CE HENBRE DE PLOTTINO COUP.

8. DIPTICULI AT TUIS ETAGE MO DEMIAMINE DECACE (8E

ANY) CHARLES INVOLVED IN PLOT. THRRE DOOD POSBIBILITY FIAT

CHARLES RAS ONLY ERARD OF PLOT AND ATIBMPTINO TO ACT AB

BROLER BETVIEN PLOTTERS AND U,B, COVIRENT POR ON INTERIETE.

IN HID 07, CHARLER USED TIE BRUR-DES' CHANUEL IN ATTRAPT

OBTAIX U.B. COVERSITT SUPPORT FOR OSE OF HIS FLOTS.

S. LAEURS, PITU, MOTTIONID IN DES RIPORT PROBABLY

IDEXTICAL MITE ALPHONSE LARIAS, FORMER DEPUTY TRON ARCANAIS,

VHO IN JUX CR MAS REPORTED BY DES

10 BE ORCABINO CLOT

MARRATEDO CORONA

Coalianod.

ВЛЕЗКОЄ ОТОЖВ

# ЕТ ОРНА ТАХ ТНЕ 1114ТОВ ОТИСЯ ІЗ РАДНУЕТО.

---

## Page 62

14-00000

4559,

AT70

BEAR MAGEAT CA

TAL POUT

BBCABT.

@1368

D00 essen

Is a cAuse -

Don 0..,

• 1000c

Oras co

PACES 150

VITA CAMERAL CONSTANT, COLONIL BLATE, AND OFFERS, CY, PAY

023761

1U PRINCE 5247 (IN 40888) (HOT BENT DO SARE NEE TOELL NO TRACES

EDGARD BONI, PLE PISS PRPORT TO AMBASBADOR RCSB. BOS ABADIME COPY

TO ARA/CAR.

REPORT POLLOES:

A. ONE OF TIL DNDERGLOUND OPMOGISSON CROUPS IN MAITI

I8 CENTRED IN THE FOLLOATHO INDIVIDUALS: LAERNS, FAU (FORMER

DEPUTY, HOM IN BINI-HIDINO); COLOROL REBIER BLATH (HRAD OF

ARTY QUARTIILASTER ALRISOUESS); COLONEL CATARD (ESAD OF THE

COAST GUARD): CONGTUNT, FAY (CHITY 0S 8TAPP). ISISY WISH 10

CHARIZE À JUNTI, FOLLONITO DIS DRATE A RETIRERAIFY OY BAITIAN

PRESIDENT DUVALIER, AD RUSICIEN POTIR DURING TRAMBITION

MARIOD. HUELCHING TRANBITION PERIOD, MIS CROUP MISHERiTO.

RATE FREE ELECTIONS AND SIXN RITTAN FROS POLITICAS ACTIVITY.

LARZHS FOULD LINS TO BECONE A MINIBYA. MAIN DOULD LITE

DIFLONATIC APPORTIONIT, CATARD DOULD LIIE TO RETIRE DO HIQ

CATTLE RANCI.. HiT COUR RUS DO PARTICULAR CANDIDATE TOR

PREBIDIRT.

B.

THIS COUP ALLEGES THAT IT CONSANDE MIDE DUIPORT

-ANONO ARMY PEASONNEL IN PORT-AD-FRINCE AND IN THE BAITIAN

HINTERLAND, THE ORONO 18 RXPORTEDEY MILLINO TO FORK MITE ANY

00a818000.

---

## Page 63

4-00000

BBCRIT

AI OETITERIAT ORIEN

НАЗАТНО

O to riesa.

•anto.

плАєм

O remo

тe.w

BBCBET

PAOB TURKE

сте осиста

OTHER NOR-BAITIAN PONIA.

1027747

B. VITIL RECINTUR, TER PRAN OP TRIS GROUP DAS TO BIT

BACE, MAIT TOR INTERVAL UPERATALA AND TEAN NOVE IN TO ASSUN

POWER. TÄST DID NOT MANT TO ACT ON TARIR CHH, BUT FREFERRED

TO DATE ADVANTAGE OY LY INTEAYAL UPELATAL CREATED. BY BOMBADDY

БивВ.

1. TI NOBT RECTHT RUMORA CONCERNINO PRESIDENT DUVALITE 'S

FRALTA RATS, HOGIVER, CAUEND TEB GROUP TO CHANGI ITS MIND.

INT LSHBERS NON DECLARE THAT TINE I8 ON THA EBAZACE ARD THAT

AS BOOH AS PRESIDENT DUVALTER "OOSS ON THE OPERATINO "ABLI"

THISY VILE MONS.

B TIR CROUP RICOGHIZIS, BONTIVER, TRAT COMBIDERASLE

DIETICULTILS LIL IN ITS PATO AND IS MOST ANXIQUE IO DISCUSS TAE

INTIRE HATTER IN BECHST MITE A E.B, IATOY. WHAT TELY HAVE TO. -

BAT TO THIS SITOY IS SOS SCONI.

D. TI CROUP SAS ORCAMITÃO TES POLLONINO PROCEDURE TOR

SEX ENTOY TO FOLLON, MIART, EB 1UST SIONO A CASLS TO TAL

JOLLORINO CARLE ADORNAS, BITLARAD, DORI AU PRINCE, BALTI.

ERCETT E

ВОДИСТОМ ВА ОТРЕВ. ТАК ТАК

---

## Page 64

1,4-00000

• КОШТАВАТ ДІСЗАТЬО

BBCRIT

• к00s

160-64

Pasta cra O25a Most)

PACE SOON

ст cause

TIE CABLE MUST RBAD AS FOLLONE:

DISCUBB TET B18AL DRAL, PIRAES ARSERVE BOO FOR LES AT THE RARE

DOUCI BOTZL."" TH HANS HIGHN TO FIL CAELS DOES BOT MATTER.

THI CABIR ADORBSS 88 TIAT ON BSZABLIENDCNTO INTERI-ELAIN &

CO.. FORT DO PRINCE, BAITI, ESCOBO, HE MUST RIGIATER AT EI

SAME SOUCI AND ANAIS CALL OL VIBIT FROY MAN HALED BOGARD BONI.

BORX IS ISHKS BLATHS EROTINE, TIL ORIOTHAL PANILY NAIL 18

"BOB"; BLAIN CHANCED HIS MOMS, BOUT VILL LITER TAKE THE

BAYOT TO DILE TO CONSTANT DA VILL INTORA BIN OF ARRANGSSTU

MADE TOR THR INTEYIS, MIN OULY PERSON FABERNT AT THI

SIVOY MISTS COBIANT EN MUST EBTALLINN HIS LONA TIDBE BY

SAYINO "Y HATE NETH BENT BY 1B.. BIANNHER TO DISCUSS BIBAL."

25R SET TOLD 18 BIENHHONDA-

400+60=7:

10. IT MOULD BI FANTEZASLE, BUT HOT HANDATORT, IS TIT

LECURT U.B. ENVOY NAS ABLE TO SPRAI TRENCH, " (810 ON REPORT)

12. PILE 3 300i6:

1-4790

an.:

ФАТТІНЬКО..

UN ON OTHER FROM IN MISUSPA ONICA DA ADORESTIO.

---

## Page 65

14-00000

ПАСТАТ ФО

O se

05007

O res sis

DOIs coi elza frase

PACB SIVE

ОНЙ COLHENT:

1023761

on 10 fay,

Babaney Ot81081

Clamara Josera Charlos told

Duraldes.

Da to

and cOs of plot abalast

af pios caz bo adranced nou

111.

Farder Shati

for

YULIAN Y. &

---

## Page 66

14-00000

• DISPATCH

coles of statlos, Pars su Pilate

ROLEO 7A MENT

¡DE MEEING ENTRED

SUS THEE HESCHE

CaleL, lE DiVISIOR

§ Babjec8 01 201-357029

Beferences:

POsT AU PRINCE

83 J01y 1958

I. Headquarters sprees vies station that the cos

11nned contact betreen Subject of 201-357029 ald IDDI A.

on beball o1 MODISH, poses a potential security threat

SOT the LITARP COMPOZEIIS 1I ESItI.

Upos receipt of

Bel C, the Desk sent a seROIaDdDa to Chlel, TODISE,

19 August 1969, Ubich torTarded a reBUse of the Bel C

lafarmation, and requested tiat the contact betueen

IDl A and Subjeet on behalf of HODISA be teratoated.

3. On t9 hugest 1969, the FODISA Officer ElO 19 la

costact vita iDea, replied

to the Desk's assorandan aa

follous.

". Ve (JODISH) save carefully considered the

Desk's comments te IDEX A And hiS relATlORShIP DIRE

He have concleded that 19 the matter of the

Dine 9uest10ns canceralIg the activity of forelys

COSTaniES lA DAllI, IDLE & las beca sullty at

JER88 Of glOppy BecarIty procedures and (ve) have

docided to sodisy our relatlonship vita bla.

represented a channel to LilARP astharity ubick se

could use to supplesent his contacts vitt. enters

Of the LAPURE SLAIL LA PORT ZU PILACE. IDY A

Attachment: UNDER SEPARATi COVER Contioned.

Distribation:

2 - Part an Pelece M/att WE/C

28 SEP 1969

CASANON SENSEN AND MINTER

НТРУ-1347

DASICAN

17 Septeaber 1961

801-357029

IM:CHATNG

CS COPY

8H/T/HT

WSKs

15595

UFFEE STARD

JIA DRES

000В EUTR

=

-= 10;

joes

118-4-69k

Kiranhich

DISPATCH

---

## Page 67

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH STIDOL AND NUMBER

HTPA-1347

sas originally latroduced to NODISH in HeY York Clty

by Subject on 15 April 1966.

Until the early fadd o1

1967, such Of FODISH activity with IDEN A Mas devoted :

to asTanziDE contacts ults various elements of LuBARP,

which IDENd requested on behalf of subject, aso

reporting operational iniorastion.

To the beat of

BODISH knowledge and belief,

honeyer, none of these

contacts produced any tanzible assistance to Sabject's

Tarlous schenes.

Fitb two exceptions,

relatlonship aith IDEN A since Octoter 1967 bag been

exclusively that of foreign intelligence collection.

The exceptions vere Subject's request for a secret

Reeting wIth & HOLADY envOy in day 1969, and as

Independent sinilar request tron another group in

As has been fully reported, IDEN A

unde it perfectly clear to NODISH and to subject

and to the other group that be vas acting only as

a channel and that he vas not actlvely involved or

interested.

He (NODISH) simply transaltted the

He. vish to point out that what. the Desk

calls IDiA's

"Lottying" fer Subject ended before

Octater 1967.

During the nearly too gears la

shich the contact in the HODISH Her York Office

dealt vith IDEl A, the latter has never sponsored

"lobbied" for Subject's various schenes.

bas occasionally relayed Inforeation conceraing thes,

but bas told JODISH repeatedly tbat he no longer

vlubes to be imolved politically vith subject.

He wish algo to point out that IDEN A, as a

regular supplier of foreiga intelligence on Bsiti,

has supplled data which originate sith baltians

other than Sabject, and,

therefore, IDEN A is not

merely subjeit's nouthpiece.

Specifically, IDEN B

IDE B 13 a tell-known Baltian bastnessmas; IDIN C

13 a forDer deputy.

He (VODISH) are not concerned with Subject,

not helieve

that lOXy & is levolved in any current revolationary

disturbed at tbe

unprofessional ray in which IDEN a bandled the questiou

conceralaz foreiga coapanies in Halti.

He did not

reguest IDEN A to consult Subject about the requirenents

on rarelgn cosparles and, in vler of the manner in

which IDEN A bandled our requiresents, ve shall

contiane caly to accept inforsation uhich he

on blo returs tron his trequent trips to Haiti, and

sball refrain tron briefing bia. Te have requested

OUr TORONP CUStOMErS tO flye Us as evaluation of

IDzA a's Intelligence reporting.

Unless isla evaluation

15 Enfarorable, ve shall continue to exploit IDEN A

In the manner just descrited.

Insofar as coatect

retReen IDIX A and SUbject 18 concerned, (1) le carpOS

reveat IDEN A Iron talklog to subject (or aaybody

else), but (2) se bave never in the past and sball

DOt IN iDE JUIUTe TeQUeSE thaN IDEN A COntACE SubjeCt

On beball o1 JODISH. "

To date, she TOROMP eVaLUAtIOR Of ¡DEN A'a

repOrtIng bas sos bees received.

HoMeTer, since YODISE

ARS AGICPd tO PERTALA fION bILEILAg IDEN A PIlOT tO aRY

future tilpa be noy nate to isiti, there should be so

recurrence of tbe type of altuation described 1a Rel C.

FACE 22

140г

BBCRET

12

201-3576

---

## Page 68

14.00000

Attachuent:

0/S/C"

ATP1-1347,

17

Sept 1969

IDENTITIES: A. LOulB A. Brun

B. Louls Leveque

C. AlfOnse Inhens

w.wcwt..wcitbesinleciia.a

PJ

VO8

ES COPY.

SSCAT, TC HTP01347

201-35702

---

## Page 69

14-00000

DISPATCH

CJTFZS.ECEA

BICBET

Chief of Station, POrt la Prince

P85:55.*; 407:09

KUATE DEA MOOTAR

1O MOUNG DONTES

30.

Caler, Vi D1v181o0

Subject o1 201-357029

ACTION KEETIES- HAKIS

References:

PORT AU PRIACK

29 July 1989

D. BIPA 2113, 29 July 1969

1. Hendponsters agrees with station that the con

Elnund contact LetHeen SubJect of 201-357029 and IDEX A.

On beDal! Of MODISH, pOSES & pOtential BeCarity threat

for the LNHARP COMpOnEntS 1s 1a1t1.

Upon receipt of

BA1 C, the DeBt sent a beaurasdua to mules, toDisi, on

19 Augast 1969, Unich tartarded a resune of the Bel C

InfarnatIon, dad requested that the contact betseen

IDKA A and Sabject on beLall o1 VODISi be teralasted.

On 29 Aagust 1969, the VODISH.

officer who la in

contact with Inny, replled

to the Dead's senorandes se

Fe (VODIS:) have carefully considered the

Dest'& comments re Indi d Rad hia relationahip ulse

subject. He have concluded that in the matter of the

Dine questions conceralng the actluity of larelga

coapanies la Halt1, IDEN A has been gullty at

least of sloppy security procedures and (ne) davr.

dectded to sodily our relationship sita bla.

subject has never doubted that IDBA A

represented a channel to LIBARP authority uhich le

could use to supplesent bis contacts vita beabero

of the LitURE stAll la Part su pelace.

AttaChment: UNDER SEPARASI COVER COntInned. • •

Matribution:

2 - POTE RE PIINCE M/D88 D/S/C

•РАПСИ УТИЛОЯ ДОГО НИЖНЕ

НТР: -1347

CASSACATCR

BICBIT

DAE

÷3 ST: K68

17 septenber 1989

201-357029

ОДІСНАТАЬ

JACE

CFFK:8

THES

WH/7/HT/Ruth Lehsas: gt

COORDINATNG

ONTH! 511135

DaTE

559$

C/wa7

FELASTES

CARONS SCRATIE

Davlo L. Spock

DISPATCH

---

## Page 70

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLISSIRICATION

BECRET

DEFATE THECE ARE NAMELR

HTPX-1317

man originally introduced to MODISH In HeT YOrk CIty

by Subject on 15 April 1966.

Intil the easly fall of

1967, auch of YODISH-actitity Vith IDEN A una devoted

to arranginE contacts VIlL various elerents of LasARp,

which IDEN d requested on behall of Subject, 8od

reportIDy operat1oDl laforsation.

To the beat of

JODISH knoledje and bellel, houever, Bore of tbese

contacts provuced any tangible assistan-e to sukjer t'a

various schenes.

Fita too exceptions, 809188

relationship uith IDEX A since Oitoker 1967 138 teer

exclustrely that ol larelyn intelligence collection.

me exceptions vere sakject's request lor a gerret

BeetIng vICA a VOLADY envOY In Hay 1969, and an

Independent sial lar Ilquest lIOn another SIOUP in

the Baze sonth.

AB has teen fully reported, IDEN A

made 1t perfectly clear to NODISH and to sutject

and to the other group that be vas artiag only as

a chandel and that he vas not actively imolved or

Interested.

Ve (WODISH) simply transnitted the

request.

He vish to point out

that obat the Dest

calla IDEl's Tottyinz" for sutject ended tefore

Octater 1957.

During the nearly two gears in

Talch the contait in the NODISH New fort office

has dealt with IDENT A, the latter bas neter sponsored

"labbied" for satject's varlous schedes.

IDd A

Lag occagionally relayed infornation concerning ties,

Lat bas told VODISA repeatedly that he to losser

sianes to be taiolted poiltleally vith sabject.

ve ulad also to point out that IDEa a, as a

regular supplier ol Iorelga intelligence on Balti,

bas supplied data voich ort iinate vith altians

other than Subject, and, therefore,

IDEA A 1s not

=iy Sutject's suitspiéié.

Specificaiiy. lild B

and IDSH C Are 10O OI ILYN A'S MaltIAL sourCes.

ILIX B is a vell-KBOUn BItiAN bUSIDeSSERB; IDEN C

1s a forDer deputy.

Le radian sre sot comersed cità Suiject,

tut are FeTy nuch sO Jit IDES. A.

¡e do not tellere

thAt IDEN A 1S IAVOlTed IN aDY CUrIeDI IeTOlUtlORarY

Ve are, bonever, disturbed at the

protessional tay la which IDEN A bandled the question

concerain, forelza companies in Halti.

"e did not

requeBt IDlI A to consult subject about the recairereate

on foreiga companles and, 1n vien of the manner 1a:

which IDEN A baDdled our requiresents.. te shall

contiane only to accept laforuation uhich be proffeis

on bla retUrN ITOn his IIeqUeRE tIPS tO Balll, aDd

son 11 refrain fron triellas bis.

He have requested

ONE tOROlP COStONerS to give un an evaluation at

MER A'B IntellIgenCe reporting.

Unless ibla cralsatio

18 anfavorab

le, me aball continue to exploit IDal a

In the LADDer Just descrited

Insolar as contact

POtICeN IDEA A

and Subjert 18 concersed, (1) de cannot

MAMORS IDEN A IrON tAlkIeR to subject los anybody

else), bur (2) re dare sever la the post and siall

DOt IR the future reQUeSt tOAR IDEA A COMERCE SUbjeCE

on behall al YODI8E.".

3.

10 dAte, RA YOROMP PAlUATION Of IDKU A'S

repor t1ns bas sor teen recelved.

However: siace TODISH

DIS SIRREd tO TeRTALA STON tIlERIDY IDEN A PILOT tO ARY

future tripA De ERy Mata tO BAllI, there should te no

reCATIANCA Of lDA TYPA O1 S11U8100 descIlDed la Bel C.

FASSVICATON

VIS SOOY

PROX NO

003 518

1801

---

## Page 71

14.00000

Attachment: 0/8/C

8174-1347.

17 Sept 1969

DERTITIES:

A. LOu1s A. BIUD

B. Louls Leveque.

C. Alfonse Lahens

---

## Page 72

14-00000

My t ron

soon to 01 once

UNTED STATES GO.CUMENT

Memorandum

: Director, Domestle Contect service

Artil.

.O55 (142822210)

:TR0N: Chler, lien Tark fleld Offico

SECRET

1X4632-69

DATK:29 Augurt 1967

1. He have carefully considered Will's couments about

Low's A. Brun and his relationship with cleard Joseph Charles.

sie

have cascluded that in the ratter of the alre questions concerala

the activity of foreiga companies in Esiül Brun has been guilty &

least of sloppy security procedures and have decided to sodify our

relationship with his.

2.. Charles has never doubted that Brun represented a

channel to Us goveraseat artiority which be could use to suppierent

his contacts with sensers of the us toassy stail in lott-su-itsce.

arun tas originally lucroduced to Dos in lier tors city by Charles os

15 ApI 1956 (see nesorandon 37-251-66). Until the early fall of 1907,

much of our ectivity with Bein was devoted to arranging cortacts viti

verious elesents of the US foverment, knich Brus requested on se=all

of Charles, and reportina operational intoration.

To the best co

our knowledge sad bellet, hoverer, none oi tiese costacts prodiced emy

tangible assistance to Charles's various sebeses.

With too exceptias,

our relationship with brun siree Cotober 1907 kes been exclusiveiy that

of foreiga intelligesce caliectica. Ise excepticos vere Grarles's

request fos a secret seeting wits a US earos 18 'IT 1969 and 27 1--

dependent sinilar request fron arother group in the same soats. As

has been fully reported, Brua nade it perfectly clear to us asd to

Charies and to the otter gacuo ticat he vas actinz only as a coarsel

and that be vas not setireiy larived or interested. We sianiy ==873-

sitted the requests. He vish to point out that sat WHil calis Bur's

"Lobbyian" for Charles ended Desore OctOber 1907. JUTLeg Ibe LeaTiJ

two years in which lizchell sas deali nize bria.

the latter bes sever

sponsored os "Lobbied" toI Caries'a varlous scienes.

Be has

castonally alayed Infotartloa conceradig then, out bas told w

repestedly that be Do jonger riabes to be invalved paliticalis viti

Charles.

SECRET

Bar U.S. Savinge Boods Regular, on she Parrell Savings Plane

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

• 2=

8X4632-69

29 August 1969

3.

He vish i'lso to point out that Brun, as a regular

supplleT of forelgn intelligence on Haits, has supplied data wbich

ortginate with faitians other than Charles, end, therefore, that

Brun is not serely Charles's sosthpiece.

Specifically, louis

Leveque and Alfonse Lahens are tho of Brus's taltien sources. Leveque

15 e vell-knova lialtan busisessions; Labess 18 a former deputy.

He are not concerned with charles, but are very much

so vita Brun. He do not believe that Brua 15 Involved 17 any currest

revalutionary scheme 1a Haiti.

We are, however, disturbed at the ur-

professional vay in which Brin handled the questions concerning foreigr

companies in taiti.

Ne did not request izun to consult Charles about

tbe requirements on foreign co-sandes and in view of the manner 1n wich

Brun handled our requirements be shall costime oniy to eccept 120 ma

tian sick he proffers on his return fros his frequcat tilps to Haiti

Bad shail refrain fron brieflia bir.

We have requested our Do/I

consuer's to give us an evaluation of Brun's intelligence reportia.

Ualess this evaluation 1s ulavorable, ve shall costine to exploit

Brun in the manner just described. Insofar as contact between Bria

33d Charles 1s concerned, (a) ve cannot prevent trun fron talking to

haTles (of anybody else) but (b) ve have never In the past and Boall

not in the future request that brun contact Charles on behalf of Dos.

denitchell:kt

PIle:

¿olE A. Brus, President

363 Interestionel Corporation

230 Flita Aveme

sex York City

SECRET

---

## Page 74

14-00000

Intelligence Information report

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

• SUBJECT

Jen Opposition Group Allied With

Clerard Joseph Carles/Ouriine of

charles's future political Plans

COJPIDILTIAL

REPORT NO

'DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

supplesent to:

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-3-322/24207-69

2 8 AUG 1969

2

00-3-322/06913-69

00-8-322/14515-69

6-D69-55300

DATE OF INFO. LAte JUl 69

•PLACE & DATE AGO.

Port-au-Prince/Late s=l 69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

1o

Opponents of Haitian President Francois Divaller have formed & sew

political opposition grous. The follarina are senDers: COLorel

Cayard (Camandant of ibe Faitian Coes: Guard); Captain

Deniel (essistant to Cajard); Gérard Instant (Faitian Any Cules of

2.

some of the sembers of this group.

mis group is now vorking with cleard Joseph Charles and has

formulated, largely under the direction of the laiter, a testative

political pian lui the organization i = post-savaller Helts. te

Eroup 1s anxious to act, because some o? the Debers, notably Daniel

and Cayard, fear that they will be arrested in the not-too-discast

future. The entire rebership displets, borever, the trait cosson

to all faitian opposition groups: they vill not act unüil President

Darveller dies, becores tosally incapacizated or is overcarora or

•sabebody else. Jacques is an importari addition to the group.

He

1s completely loyal to President Duvalier, but has no use for =be

other nerbers of the Duvalier family. Consequeatly, he will play no

active part unless the President in sone sanner disappears tron the

scens.

This proup still vishes to exercise porer during a transitionai

period following Presides: Duvalier's departure Lsee 00-B-321/14515-69

(paragraph 3) ]. Charles does not ras: to hold aur political

appointuent during this transition period, but plans to recover b1a

position as the head of tie initian Caber of Cornerco and travel

abroad, to JAise nonay los foreiga ecoranie assistance to Faiti.

Be plans to establisa a political pary, to be inora as TOP (Iraval),

NO

The dis

conction el this derrant is linted

el the US18 member

in accordenso wis paragrash 8 ol DCID 117, il me Do rovercad to lhore.

comporants ol la decoraines

sons is personnel

nder di contractual nissansio to lha U. § Govertmans untsoul tha tristen

ol the l S

CHARLES

---

## Page 75

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-8-321/24207-69

CORPIDES

-20

Ordre, Progres), Cherles kopes that TOP Will become one of two or.

three political parties in the post-Duvalier period and 18 convinced

that TOP will win a constisational victory at the polls and propel

his to power.

In the meantime, Colosel Kesner Blain Will be the bead

of the provisional goverment.

Blain bas so long-range political

ambitions.

Charles and his colleagues plan a ner constitution for

Ha1t1, which will provide for & President and for a Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister vill exercise the affective porer.

Charles expecta

thst TOP's electoral victory Vill make his, as TOP's leader, Prime

Minister in the neu constitational goverment.

This money 1s to be used to

accuracy of this reported elft.

COME D T

---

## Page 76

4-00000

SOUTIO ANDIOP INITIALS DEFI

R.

LEHNAN: gt

WHAT/HT

1349-5595

DATE

21 AUGUST 1969

CARLS RLCRITARLAT DIEBENINATION

сох7,

W18

DIMOEX

SECRET

О то тоет

_ KRANCH

O PILE 800

-TO

flane. va.

DOM. RolAN Erless 52

tomasalication)

SECRET

•21 21

53 2 Rue 69

-..1

DO BASE NEW YORK

AXULE DONOPS EVMEND

REPERENCE: DIRECTOR 31844

CITE DIRICTOR

Jolter

300845

IDENTITY: MR. JOHN MITCHELL

END OF MESSAGE

8457731

Ist

I/2_

Sec

P1l0_

*Cable Secretariat: Fis insert DIR number.

WAB Tai

suni

WALTER

C/DOI/8

•ЛИСАВТО ОТТІСКО

COORUMATINO OFFICEM

АИТНЕАТІСАТИО

REPPODUCTION LY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

com no.

ChARlES

---

## Page 77

4-00000

R. LEHNAN: gt

WW/7/HT

DITS

DATES

1349-5595

21 AUGUST

1969

CARLS BZCRETARLAT DUSSEMIMATIONI

sixb

_ *-

COMFs

11118

MESSAGE FORY

TOTAL COPIESS

SECRET

ROUTISG

• INDEX

• FILE IN CO FILE NO. -

• RETURN TO -

PRANCH

тысто

folitel

.-то

kore and thes lilad)

SECRET

DO BASE NEW YORK

21 21 53 2 10d69

63/7/Ht

Chief

ISITE DIRECTOR

Ext Dif

:7

ARULE DONOPS EVEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 26288

110 he Nyu CONTACT

ШІТН

1. ON 21 AUGUST, IDEN, WOLISH NEW YORK REP WHO HANDES

RR

LOUIS A. BRUN, SUBJECT OF REF, PHONED WODISE PASHINGION

OFFICE TO INQUIRE IF SYKEND-I OR THE EVEND ORGANIZATION

WAS OF INTEREST TO RVROCK, BASIS FOR INQUIRY IS THAT BRUN

HAS REPEATEDLY MENTIONED TO IDEN THAT EYMENDI AND HIS

ORGANIZATION ARE DEEPLY INVOLVED IN EXILE WORK IN NEW YORX

AND THAT BRUN SUSPECTS THEY HAVE SOME CONNECTION WITH

RYROCK. HODISH REPS SPECULATE THAT BRUN SEEKING CON-

FIRMATION OF RVROCK CONNECTION AND THAT BRUN MAY TRY

PENETRATE EVMEND ORGANIZATION.

2. NODISH WASHINGION REP WAS INFORKED THAT EVUEND-1

AND HIS ORGANIZATION ARE OF INTEREST TO WOMACE AND THAT

IDEN SHOULD REFRAIN FROM MAKING ANY CONTACT WHATSOEVER

WITH THEM. NODISH AGREED PASS ABOVE TO IDEN AND SUGGEST

WODISH RELATIONS WITH BRUN BE DISCONTINUED.

3.

IN VIEN ABOVE, REQUEST CLEAND TELL EVEND)

CONTINUED. ....

COONDIMATIMO OFFICERI

SBCRET

GROUP

AUTMIATICATINO

OFFICER

AE'RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUITO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 78

14-00000

МЕРЗАСЕ ТОКУ

TOTAL COPULS:

SECRET

ROUTIRE AAD/02 IN TIALS - ELEM ON

04765

DIT:

DATE:

CARLE SI CRETARLAT OTEFENINATON

.PER

Iмоєх

O'MILE IN CE FILE MO. -

FILE.ve.

Polites

ustomacco secrea

(pical

SECRET

PAGE THO

Г

-..

CITE DIRiCTOR

7.31844.

DROP ANY CONTACT HE MAY HAVE WITH BRUN, SINCE BRUN SUSPECTS

HE CONNECIND WITH RUROCK AND MAY BE TRYING CONFIRH.-

4. FILB: 36-124-25/3.

END OF MESSAGE

WE CONNENT:

BRUN,

who collaborator of Clenard Joseph

CHARLES on political ratters

contact of WODISH, N.Y. office.

in Haiti, is

: 1.

HALTER O BRIEN

C/DOI2

JOHN R! BURTON

AC/WHD

СООТОНИАТИНО ОПРІСЕКУ

«ЕНТІСАТІИК

comto

SP8O04-MHON ET OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICO IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 79

4-00000

SECRET

15 ALS S8)

BNORASDUTI FOR: DITeCtOr, DODestle Contact Servico

SUBJECI

8 DO3 Case 47540 - Contact ulth

Louls A. BrEn/Clenard Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969, Station Part au Prince aduleed

that Clerard Jobeph Charles had passed & 115t o1 nine

questions concerning the Haitian economy to an official

of the unsted states unbasay in Port su trInce.

The 113t

of questions was written in English in staadard u.8.

Goverment foraat and, although sterile, appeared to be

stelLigence requrrenents.

Charles told the Elbassy

official that he had just 11risbed a "big job" for the

Pentagon and Inplied that the list also caRe ITon the

Pentagos.

The Babassy offictal suspected that Charles

had passed a copy of the list to the rational Palace.

On 2 August, a representative of the WHHalt1

Deak contacted iT. George

Husulln, Operatloral Support

Etali of its, and learned thai the lus oifice in new Yori

and briefed Hr. Louls A. Brun and bad orally passod a

21Bt of CIRI rEQUIrEMENtS tO BrUD CONCerDIng HaltI pIlOS

to his trip to Ia1t1 during the weet of 21 July.

Ir. Masalin speculated that Brun had probably noted the

is requirenenis ou paper and then had passed a copy

to Charles upos hIB arrIvaI In HaItI.

3. POT & nunDer of years, the Unltod States GoverD

sent has bees avare of the political abbitions of Charles

and his alleged plotting to overthrou the duvalier regiue.

In 1goi, this rather open plotting led to his Imprison

nent for over one year.. Also, since May 1963, Charles

has been trying to obtain support from the Unlted states

Governueat for his plots but he has been consistently

reballed.

Charles 18 not held in bigh esteem by u.s.

offsolals and his sotives ara highly questionable.

He

oves bla position 1n Halts to his relationship vita

Davalder and bla ability to successiully manago sose of

SECRET

Chaelies Yell

---

## Page 80

14-00000

he core notorious Iinancial rackods os the regina.

marlos enjoys no political lolionini and even the •loig

with which he 18 associated are viered mith cossiderable

for exanple.

88 hate never been able to confiru

that Carlos was involved with the "military junta" formed

1n May 1969, as he clalned. In February 1959, the U.S.

Inbessy In Part au PIlnce comented trat, tith regard to

the sost recent plotting of charles, "the possibility

ennnot be exclured that Charles.... coold be a prosacation

to detoraine the real notizes of the united states Govera

sent towards the Duvalier reglne." Me concur in the

Bsbasey's siers.

I. During the past three yeers, the H Division kas

been kopt advised of the contact between DOS ind Brun and

h19 relationship sith Charleg.

We are al8o avare froz

Dos and other yources of the efforts by Brun to obtain

support Ison the United States Governeat for Charles.

Brun 18, of COurse, a close collabarator oi Charles and

a business representative of his 1n Neo fort City.

BrID

has contacted officials of the Departuent of Defense,

the Departnent of state, and even a person vite access to

treslient Johnson on Charles® behalf.

The Chief of

Caribbean Affairs of the Department of State categorically

told Brus In June 1967 that the Unfted Statos Goverument

vas not interested in supportiny the plots of charles or

anyone else agalnst Duvaller, but this advico seems to

nave fallen on deal ears.

The most recent example of

Bruin's lobbyLIg thE 18 May 1959 vhes Brun passed os to

DOB a request Iron Charles for a secret meting betreca

8 U.8, Envoy and a represeatative of the "nilltary justa."

Brun's involvenent vith Charles requires that he be con

aldered a blased source of intomation.

While some of sie

Infarnation Brun has obtained Iron Charles bas been of

Interest, there is kardly anything that sas not avallable

through other channels and Indeed, much of it vas slasted.

5.

AS WAS SET: TOTED 19 SAT sENOraNCe tO thO

perational Support Stall, Dos, on 16 July 1988 and

28 Hay 1989, 0 1nt0гposo no Objection to DCS Balatalalai

contact th втш fOr 118 ns purposes. Hover, the

• ₴

---

## Page 81

14-00000

SECRET

PolatlonshiD De:tn Brun dIL CArles laB Dou takes ou

@peratlonal characteristica (agent/saD agent) sits arus

leNging FrqUireSENt da Charles 1B faltI to serTice ou

beball of Des.

The relst10s341> betteen Brun and Casiles

DISO DAS BARITESTEd DOLITICAl aNd SECUILTY ASDACTE PUICE

could adversely affeet lie interests of the united states

that the contect betreca Brus and Carles os behall of

DEs Do teralaated.

Johs 8. Barton

acting Calat

Festera HonispIere DITIBION

DDP/EB/8t: B. Bert st

Distributios:

0518&1-

Addresser

1 - CHED

WaT/Et Chrono

]

- VAT/IT (CHARLES)

- 3 .

SECRET

---

## Page 82

14-00000

DISPATCH

OUSSFICATIDN

SECRI

Chiet, Western Hemisphere Division

FROGSSENS ATIDE

DARKES FOR MONTRE

ONLY DUA'NO DESE

CAS JUDEL ODELHE

Chief of Station, Port au Prince 'k

•1001A44

• Subject of 201-357029

SCTICT ISJUNESS, - DETERSACES

REFERENCES: A. DIRDCTOR 26288 dated 1 August 1969

B. HTPA-2443. dated 29 July 1969

ACTION REQUIRED: See Paragraph 5.

1.

The Station would like to offer its views on

the WODISi contact, through Idertity of Paragraph 1

Reference A (hereinatter IDEN), with 201-357029, as well

as did the question of the equirerents which 201-357029

gave LiPLE and which were forwarded to Headquarters in

Reference B-

2.

Since IDEN has been told that his contact is with

LUSHOE and since he has told 201-357029 that fact, and since

201-357029 has apparently, in his sind at least, converted that

fact into contact with RVROCK, and has probably spread both

stories with his associates and thereby throughout the local

milieu, be have, in eifect, a dangerous security situation.

When we consider that the INPURE receives all the information

bat 201-357029 gives IDal anyway,

and

nost ot the time receives

the inforsation directly irom 201-357029, then we have ar

operation that 1s difticult to justity.

in the case of the requirements forwalded with

Reference B, we have a situation in waich WoDISH levied

requiresents on 2U1-j57029, through IDEN.

then turred those requirements over to INPUR? which returned

ches via 201-357029 and IDEN tO WCDISH. Why not cut out che

siddlenan and the security coxplications, and save the headaches?

The Station teels that the lCDISH handling of 201-357U29

results in a case that has the potential of causing severe

problems for AKULE, and that it could well be that AñUli will

de nade to bear the blane since elenents vithin RVROCK might

feel that the ultinate responsibility tor supervision of the

Distribution:

(3} - CAHD

AS COPY

по пива

KIPA-2457

SECRET

DAM

19 dugust 1969

NOS ALL MUNAE

2U1-357029

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

LASSICATIOn

SECRET

HTPA-2457

tie would appreciate obtaining Headquarters' vieus

on our thoughis as expressed above as well as on that seems

to be a contradiction between refererce A, paragraph 2 and

the evidence presented in Reference B Attaciment.

It appears

unlikely to us that IdaN could have typed the Attachment.

Vincent H. -RACICOT

201- 357029

00+

S30

15€

MOUS NOTOR

SECRET

---

## Page 84

14-00000

FEI DOCUMENT

LATE: 17 AUCUST 1952

CLASSIFICATIOY: RONE SIVEN

SUBJECT: CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES

FEI FILE TO: 105-6311 (MIAMI)

DFPT OF STATE AIRGRAY A-134

DATE: • 13 AUGUST 1969

CLASSIFICATION: CONEIDENTIAL

FROM ALEUEASSY PORI AU PINCE

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL ACTITTIES OF CLEVARD

JOSEPH CHAFISS

---

## Page 85

14-00000

Gug 4,609

SHORANDON FOR

3 Chlef; Doseatle Contact service

SUBJECT

• DO3 Case 47540 - Contact vich Louls A.

Brun/Clenard Josoph Charles

1. On 88 July 1989, Station Port au Prince advised

that Clesard JOseph Charles had passed a 1198 Or DiDe

questiona concuralag the laltian econosy to as officlal

of the balted States Embansy in port au PrIsce.

The 118t

O1 QUeStIODA DRS DIETEN in PAglion In standard ".8.

CoveraseDt forbat and, although aterile, appeared to be

Intelligence requirenents.

Charles toid the Entassy

officlal shat he bad just finiaded a "71% jot" for the

Fontagon and laplied that the list also came fron the

pentagon

The Babassy officlal suspected that Charles

had passed a copy of the list to lie Narlonal palace.

8.

On & August, a representative of the MA/Halti

Dest contacted tr.

Gaorge HusUlin, Operational Support

Staff of DOT, ald lenIDed that the DCS Olflee in New York

dad brlefed Mr. Louda d. Frun and hau orally passed a 1188

of Cila requiremento to trun concernia, lalti prior to ble

trip to baltl during the neck of 21 july.

Mr. HUsUlls

•speculatod that Brus had protably noted the Dos requiremento.

on paper and then had passed a copy to Charles upon bin

arIIDal In BaltI.

3.

for a sucter of years, the taited stated Governsent

Das been avare of the politieal ambitions of Charles and

ais alleged plottieg to o'erthro the duiallor regiue

1988, 8h18 rather open plottiag led to his lappidodsoni for

over

ODe JeRI

A1BO, glACe May 1963.

Charles bag teen trysag

to obEnla support fron the United States Coveranent lor bis

plota but he bag teen consiatently rebuffed

Charles Is not

hold la bisa enteen dy U.S. O!flcials and ble notives aro

bigaly questionablo

He ores his position in halts to hig

relationadip vich Duvaller and his abllity to succeasiully

DADAGO. NONE OI IDe DOTe NUtOIlOUS lInancial rackets al the

restos

Charles enjoya

Do political folloning dad eron the

"plora" sita ebich be

1s. associated are lened with ran-

olderable roserva

Por exasple.

have deier been able to

confira thas Charles

Intoleed 01tb

the. "9181191Y 14989"

80ГНоВ їД Кзу 1960.

be.

clalbed.

February 1968, the

52C2B7

8761357028

Charles dafl fide

---

## Page 86

14-00000

U.8. Ratassy 1a fort su priDe contented

that, u1th regard

to the sons re ent plottlas al Charles, "the

posalbility cannot

Do excluded that liarles

¡ould be a pro: or arson to ceteraino

the real sott'es

of she united states corernment tonard tho

Duvallor soglee "

He contar in the Babassy's i sena.

8.

During the past shrer years.

the in Diession has

Deen kept ad ised of the coata:! tetueen DCS and Brus and

ais relationsalp vith Charles

yo are also ayare tron

DEs and other sour es of the efforts iy prun to ottain support

fron the Unlted States Gore-arent for Carrles

Brua 18, 0l

course, a close collaborator al Charles and a busineso

repreBeRtadd.e of his 10 dey York City

Brun bar contacted

0111:1a!g 08 the Department o! Delerse.

the Departeent of

State, and

M18b BICes8 to President Johngon

oR Charles' beball

Tide

Chief of Cariblean Affairg of the

Department of State catesort ally told Brun

in June 1967 that

the Unired States Governsear

yag not interested la supporting

the plots of Charles or anyose else againat duvaller. tut

this torire

meers to have tallen on deat eura

recent exsaple o! Brun's lottylny was 10 May 1969 when bras

passed on to DC8 a request iron Charles to: a se ret seeting

betucen a u.8.

'and a representative of the "allitary

junta."

arug's lavolve

u1th Charlen requires that he to

considered a bladed source o! laforsation

phile Bosse of the

¡niortation Brun dis citaldid iron Caries uno deen di

Interest, thare is bardly asythiny tast van not arailable

through other chandela and sadeed, sui! ol 1t vas slanted

dO THE BET POTTS lA THiY REDOTADdURS tO the

1969.

Ve Interpose Do obJection to DIS saIntainINE COntaiE

with frun for 188 onn purposes.

Roberer. the relationadip

betueen Brun

aDd Charles bag sou taken on operat101a1

racters.

S18.

(agent/8ub-aze0t) 018d Brun levying require-

1D

Baltl to service on behall of Des.

The

t10a511P

Brun and Charles also has monifested

politiral

and

security aaperea shich rould ad ergely affert

the Interests of the United Braten Coxerment regardinz halti.

ve requent that the contard between Brus aDd

Cleanra joceph charles on tehall of dos be teralnated.

chief iro

Deatera Henlaphere DIvIsIon

SECRET

---

## Page 87

14-00000

DOU •NG ANTICI INITIALS • SEEN EY

ORIOs

UNIT!

DITS

DATES

38. -

COMAs

RUSH LEILAN; OVS

13/7/HT

5595/1349

2 SEGUST 1969

CADLE FICTITANZAT DISSEMINATIEN

DieB

_PER _

ENGAGE HORIA

TORAL LOMES:

S-Z-C-R-E-I

D1N0Eь

O PILE IN CO FILE DO. M

• Nes To -

- BRANCH. OFILERIO

FAR. VA. RIAN DO 5, Fiz. cucless cloA

fataandicazion)

S - E-C-R-E-T

Kana and Biea diled)

Tö T

01 22

PORT AU PRINCE

INTO: DO BASE NEW YORK

•REF: PORI AU PRINCE 6323 (IN 12581) *

CITE DIRECTOR 5 2 88

1. PER REP REQUEST, ONE LUIS BRUS, WELL ENON COLLABORA=

TOR OF SUBJECT REF ON POLITICAL MATTERS IN HAITI, IS CONTACT

OF WODISE OFFICE, NEW YORK. PRIOR TO BRUN'S TRIP TO BAITI,

WEEK OF 21 JULY, HODISH BRIEFED BRUN AND ORALLY PASSED LIST

OF CIRL REQUIREVENTS ON BAITI. FYI, BRUN BELIEVES WODISE

CONTICT IS FEDY DEPENSE AND THAT REQUIRPENTS LEVIED BY DOD.

2. IT WODISH BELIEP THAT BRUN PROBABLY NOTED REQUIREZ

MENTS ON PAPER FOLLOWING BRIEFING, AND PASSED COPY TO SUBJECT

REF UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN HAITI.

AB

3. FYI, SUBJECT REF WAS REGISTERED IN INTERAGENCY

SOURCE REGISTER UNTIL 17 MARCH 69, WHEN ACSI TERNINATED HIS,

WITHOUT PREJUDICE. SUBJECT WELL KNONN FOR HIS REPEATED

ATTEMPTS OBTAIN USG BACKING FOR HIS E

SUiTENS PLANS TO

OVERTHRON DUVALIER.

+=0172

57

Continued

ES COPY

COORDRRLATINO OAFICERI

MULARHO СТРІСЛЯ

CHARRE

201-357029

01 AUGG

AUTHENTICATI

OFFICER

S-E C-B-E-I

SOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN TOLE ISINU OF, ICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 88

4-00000

ROUTING AND/ON INITIALE • SEEN EY

: 39103

EXTS

JATES

ROL DECATTARAT DUSSMIMATION

8..

—ra-

ZONFT

FILE. VA

jabiasilications

S-E-C-R-E-T

TOTAL SORE!

TOTAL

S-E-C-R-E-T

-SER

Dennis PH 265 caren

Triest

Г

ACTION.

(olito)

spicel

loans or lice files)

(roloranco numbers

CITE DIRECTOR 26288

PAGE 2

7

RODISH BRIEFED ON CONTENTS RET AND PROMISED TAKE CORRECTIVE !

FILE:

201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH Comment:

Clerard Joseph CHARLES passed list of questions.

tO EYBOFF re Haitian econouy.

advised Emb.

he

bad finished "big job" for Pentagon. Advise

19 118t of MOFIR origin.

83.51 &3S

HƠ

WILLIANT. BROE

. C/HED

DOI/B-

@BRickins

CHARLES B.

DICKENS

AC/HH/7

Laced. Ears out

S-E-L→P-EST

ASPROOULTON BY OTHER DEAN THE LURIC ZEFICE IS PROHIBITED,

OAFICES

. COMME

---

## Page 89

14-00000

BLE SECRETARUT PE

JUANCICOM

SLOTTED

TETA CORES 22 PO" SCANSIORNATALS

• SIES BY

SECRET -22

(wronfied t

osrond++5555 085-9-23

:=:

apsuer to out no -

30

PER

DESTRO [BG

WH8

F402

SECR E I 29285 I JLL 69 CITE PORI AU PRINCE 6323 RACICOI ACT INGI

DIRECTOR INFO DO BASE NEW YORK

29 Ja 69 # 12581

AKULE DOMOPS EUMEND

L 1O QEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES PASSED IO EMBOFF COPY OF LIST

OF 9 QUESTIONS WRITIEN IN EXCLISH DEALING WITH HAITIAN ECONOMY.

VENTIONED HE HAD JUST FINISHED "BIG JOB" FOR PENTAGON AND

IMPLIED LIST ALSO CAME FROM PENTAGOS. ALTHOUEH STERILE, QUES-

TIONS VRITTEN IN STANIARD GOVERNMENT FORMAI AND APPEAR TO BE

INTEL REQUIREMENI SO

1. 20 STATION POUCHING LIST TO HAS ONLY PER HIPA 2443 DTD

29 JULY SINCE CANNOI DUPLICATE LOCALLY. VOLED APPRECIATE

LEARMINE IF LIST IS OF WOFIRM ORIGIN. FYI EMBOFF SUSPECTS

CHARLES HAS PASSED LIST AI PALACE AND STATION THEREFORE FEELS

SECURITY ASPECIS RE KANDLING CHARLES BY ANY USE AGENCY SHOW.E

BE REVIEVED. SINCE CHARLES HAD PASSED LIST IO EMBASSY FOR

ANSHERIME OF QUESTIONS, IT VOULD APFEAR "INTELLIGENCE" COULD

HAVE BEEN OVERTLY OBTAINED.

20. FILE: 281-357829.

SECEET

SECRET

---

## Page 90

4-00000

DISPATCH

OASPRICADON

SECRET

Chief, Western Herisphere Division

FEDE

U142

Chief of Station, Port au Prince (VHR Acting)

SURE O

Subject of 201-357029

ACTION BETLURED -KEFIESTS

PROCESSING ACTICA

MASKED FOR MOEXASS

NO EIDEXHIS BLOURES

ONET OURIFTED DESK

CAN MIDTE BLOCKG

REFERENCE: Port au Prince 6323 dated 29 July 1969.

Per Reference attached is the list of questions

given Subject.

Vincent H. RACICOT

ittachment:

as stated above (h/u)

Distribution:

3 - C/AHD w/att h/

CS COPY

1 at

HTPA -2443

CASSANATO

SECHEI

29 July 1969

70S FIS L

202-357019

---

## Page 91

14-00000

ES remainers are settire up substay cospanies 13 18151 05 2=3 25-2155

patersilys vich Fal:'an enterpolies to froduce such ltest as underver, bage-

¡alls, icoticar aad otker export lters. Iney use ¿altian ja:111tles ari sater-

1al6 Sagarted fros the US.

Lo lEat opoLIde escales aTa Larolvel la proclay ebase gurds,

2. Are tieTe ITOspIta that otser cutandas ese esterla lie Piole

Eterials)?

Do 5'111 tiece entorTalIos expand? lor lesortant void 1t be i

1111 19 Lase enterIsed Expediell discociladad sat-crion

Fraduat?

Go Gii0 tha Platos da 153 value 0% la lunariod goods to. Ebo

T. RoN do ¿Le dECTile pIcauceTs and to lo lapautara poel abort

Dove ITiNIEn: Cond1:1013 In BalLi chargod sisco these ester

FIlEDa began operating?

DO HOMe CATCETITO 1O ENA LATELLA DOCIAl DOCIALTY TURtOE? DO DI

ПРОТʼТА СОТІЙЧА ЧО ЦНА ДОСІЯ ДЕШТІЦУ ПОВЛІ

WWaRIHTPA-2++3

ES COFf

201-357029

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

28 "lay 1000

IINORANQVE POR : DIJeCTOI, DOSBtIC COSTaCE BATPICE

OpaTa110na1 BAppOr8 §XA!!

ATTEATION

Àt. Coon go &. Basu

BCBTLET

DeS CuBe 47540 - Request uy indtiai

IPPONIELOS GOUD lOI BOCFOS INPOTTLE

5182 .0.8.01116181

I. IRLS MIEOTADÍUS VÍII DRTUO tO COnfIrN tLe te lCphOE

0srer8a8109s tetreen your office abd the Ch1as 01 1sa 1a181

Dask On 15 Ded 21 lay 1909 conceraln8 lba requent sede

Ihrodidh 15. L0U19 A. Erur os the abore subjece.

DES 1R8 8J900

canTersallaus, your olllce ag advigod that the tH Iitision

DÃO DO LATRIEST dI COSLICILDE ADY IOPTOSCNLATITO OI SARIE=

Of IDe PLOTTIAS SrOND.

8. TDe V8 DITIaION CODSIdeTy CleUArd JOBODA CaRrleS

tO DA & POTORALA] BATI-DUUNlINI PIOSTOI II POTE SU ITLACE

VIEA LITELE DEBIA OI IOILONIDE IO CAIIY OUT LLE BNTI-TUTETI

ment des 1809.

Durlaj ibo veet of l1 lay 1960, caerles

ajUISACDRE tùE IETaESY 1S POT?

=s Pr120e IItn basIcElly she

SaNs IDLOTHATIOn aB IElayOÓ tO

, TDE DOS OfIIC& IN MET YOTE

ґу М. Bras.

Tae oaly difference vas that be dld Do? requenE

tRAS A U.8. GOVeTICeTE O'IICIAL ANLe CORPaCE ULTL LSe LaSOIInl

F=.

D4t DETDY 1N9I thA SObROgY fEZN1dO EnNO MERUDAA

RDO1 the U.S, COVEIINNAI DOULd l00% DEIETOleNtlY OR LLA DOND

ADCH tie COU? 08O

LaUACaNd.

Thn üntadey replled thar lbas

U.s.

GOPEIDDeDI bad a llIa pOlley Dos to

IntoTVeDe 1n BUch

MATRRIB NDd PURI DO JUCI ISSUIANCO CONLO DO rXPACteC.

3.

BIDCA 1987, ChATleS DAS Made AIaSlAI OTeT CEreS tO

the D.S. OOVPTINADI iOT SApPOIS Of b1S

2D81-10V9ID8D8 plass.

Ubea renloulae sbere approsches, iiere has sluaya beea some

dOUbS NS tO lDA ACCUFACY OI lLA IalOTARIIOS

Ibat Caa:ies

(OS BEUA) UAO LUIDIADRO. TbILE

LnG acceped

IB SCEANY

18

COMLO BATEI DA

Leteraloed 11 1e dan Ictudll

wraber of

EDA PIOTILAS BOUD.

DICA UOUally lAciuder snabero ol tDo Haltlas drty, ar 11

SRTIPO LRA ALADLY LACONA SNATO OI NA AAII-DUVAlIeT BIOT ASI

VAS SIYIDS tO ACT dS 1 tIOKeI bATUGRR tDa ploRrere

aod the

SECRET

---

## Page 93

14-00000

SECRET

D.B. COURTINET lOS kIE ONA INESTOStA.

A. A8 EDA FIONARY ILAA, PALIL COLLADiO TOPOICE LATE

dies.

soon sabera or to junla ana reportedly anzloug i

OVATEDION DUVALIDI, SIONIA lA TECOMES, DUS SO tAI DATE DUl

ALDO, IEN 111D08E Of DUVAlIET DAS UNdONDEEdlY

18apArod aDil-DaVEllEr PiO881I8 LY Other groupo la #a181

bOR DO SAlLADIO 1A:0:1A81O9 1O AYRILADIO ON IDOL piRAS. 18

180s?1f19d d9 8 plotles la any of las raporte Iran Lateraal

An UBs mAntlOsed la tha FaT senorsidus detod

18 Jaly 1868, ue do not laserpose duy abjocilca to Dos

PALSERLALRI CORRACS DIES BIRA POS lIN OTA FAIDOSER. HONEYeS,

POTENICO GIRL D.8, DOLLEY, IDSt BARE abOUdO clearly ander-

SAIIDBY IDA! PDO Ú.8. ¿OTOTANSI DAS DO IATOTOSS lA beCOMIAR

harles B. Dicin

Distributlon:

0513 & 1

= Addressre

•SHT

3 - BET/NT (CHARLES 811E)

SECRET

---

## Page 94

14-00000

L'UNGASSIFIED

WiE

USE ONLY

O CONFIDEA. AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Bequest by. Haitian Oppasition Group Por Secret Intervier

vich us orficial

DOBBIA

GJ4u5 22501057669

на

Case 47540

DOS/Operational Soport StafI

900 Key Bldze

2266

DATE

23 May 1969

"ad

SECRET

10.

soldi

1.

ZONE

For your Infornation.

DO/DCSL

2

3 3 0001 8g.

264/67

shinsey stavon.

S.

7.

30,

1lo

12

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLI

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 95

14-00000

+999999919939991

9?:!

mi:

59! 59

-1: 74

MITI! MILE

+--31099

1=6:

197 779949199

"!!2"""

АРРИТРЯТИ

---

## Page 96

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTEAMAL

USE ONLY

D

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• SECRET

FROM

Clemard Josess Charles

DCS/Operatiosal Support Staff

900 Key BIdE:

TO, (Otteer designalion, noons auriser, and

DATE

DUACION

2268

HO:MED

FORWARDED

12і

INTIALS

на.

Case 47540

DATE

21 May 1969

COMES a line ot coat and or to he

so whore

2

DO DeST

3B. 0001 FR

DC / WH/7

For your information and file.

5.

WHIT/HT

SECRET /SENSITIVE

10.

610 " tous

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERNAL

USE QULY

UNCLASSIFIEU

---

## Page 97

14-00000

DIOINS TUE MONTH SE JUNE 19690 ME HAS SET A I JUI! 1969 DFALIME

FOR TUE ACCOMPLISUMENT OF MIS SOALO CHARLES HAS ALSO STATES THAT

TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE DECAUSE OTHES OPPOSITION BACUPS ACOLLECTAROS

VITES POESUMARLY,. HE PEFEDS TO DUE DO MODS DE TUOSE BOGUPS LISTED IM

019-321/958,3-6801 МА ТРУ ТО АСТ ДЕРООЕ ЧЕ САМО

CHAPLES LISTS NO

REASSY TOR THE SPECIFIC TIME LIMIT DE ! I'LY 1999.

SO CHAPLES MAS DESUESTED THAT THE PENTAROS" CIPECIFICALLY, MIS

PROMER INTEDHEDIADY, COLONEL HAVARD PIERIT MISDATED A SECOET

PAVAY TO TALY TO MIM. ME LAYS DOWN NO

MIS PA TO TA CHEN AND

PRESITATLY WILL TALY TO MIY IN POST-S-PRINCE, THIS DEDUEST MAS SEEN

LADELED "JOSENT.

- END-

SECRE TISENSITIVE

---

## Page 98

14-00000

SECRET

(59no

Fallent Ir1

DOCUMENT TRANSFER ASS CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCURENT.

L'OCLARENT

IDENTIFICATICH

MU FILE NO.

DISTATIN OR

TOMOATIOn

DATE PROCeSSiO

Піт. DATE

P8- CHOSS BIRERARO TO TAIS FILE

DOCUMENT UIIRESITION

13.

PERTINENT ISFCAMATION

TRANSTIBAIO TO

DI FILE DO.

CHIALES, CLEMAND JOSEPH

201-357028

SEX. " NUB ?

CIT

HAITI

OCC ?

& HAITI

MBR OF OPPUSITION GP.

131-009-106

Pälk-20024

13 MAY 69

HOCUNDHTP

R6907311254

RI

FILE IN 201-

357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 are poemrono

SECRET

---

## Page 99

OVIdOY GI LUTA LUA AJEU LI LAG SIGILALOS SAL LASTÃS LiCoS

MINOBIRI 132025

AGILISODEO AGILITY X6 1520036 62336815

I116K 8581ùLáюш

210n 80200327436

69h0/00

00000-₽ L

---

## Page 100

351G776S

Madio Shl ita Janosoond aul: 7702 End 022124020 Sir divad dad *g

TEN LE RETUAL ENILENCES DAL NO SECOO SUITERS

1030ISZ6g SO 4006 6h 161 Ch 1000603 CAL 10 SI BE L6A1 5007330

00000-t L

---

## Page 101

14-00000

EVYBY VAS APLE T? SPEAR FRENCH.

E TASLISITICS

---

## Page 102

14-00000

Intelligence Information Repurt

'CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Fait

Repeated 71nel DeNIS lOT dread of

JOsE,o-Charles' InTal event

COITIDZIRIAL

ISPORT NO.

• DATE DESTR.

NO PAGES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-3-327/10754-69

21 APP. 1969

supplement to: 003-327/07210-69

do As part 0f his emat to oozin foreigs excharge, Halti's President

Duvalier has decided to aust a frolinE concession. À lS sydieste,

oasisting of a Jer Ion's CItY fLTI, Jayaote Associates, and of Count

lictel levitca, aision ol te iseriess (isodox Curcia, bas bees

trying to obtaia tise concession. [Callector's Note: see reference

for additional details,/.

2.. Doe 31sb0p hes severed kis comections with leynote, which bonbarded

President Duraller vits telegrams and rade as mennounced trio to

•Es11 to obtain the concession.

3. Sorever

It- shey world Dor rece-Te tre concession. PresideNt Duvalle

el'es very bearily upon hiré for earice and guidance in eccoondi

matters.

Alast at the sase tire scat Jeynote received André's telegres,

Cesar Joser Sales bottled the Elsiop toat be would re-

ceite the cossession ca ise fallowing teras:

і во

A Des gOUD Of ESsOciates el the lisbOp VIll receive

O percert a tie: 2055 receitEs Iron the concession

Do

The Conertest el Saltl Will receive 10 percent of too

gross secelpts.

Co Ibe Blesop and tis calel partuer vill receive five per-

cent of the fross receipts.

COJPIDBIIIAL

Dua dai

el the USB

что

---

## Page 103

4-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEM

: 02=

NO DISSEM ABROAD

008-327/20754-69

do

the reanining fite percest of the gross receipts vill be

used by de lisbo?, reportediy are isitiaà pupervision,

" to beg's coastructlea of scoals end calli care cesters

In Exits. Trese seiodis and cetters till be under the

BuSpIces of tire Americas artsodox dures.

5. Jostra-Charles's eutbarsal, d tbe telegres shich ritually proudsed.

tie concession to tse DeY grasp indicates tiet ila furtures usy be

as the mend. Ee certainly cocid never bare sent sich a Dessage vita

ott the approval of President duraller. "us: be vas perudtted to

send It Indicetes that tbe presliest may be segiming to look upou

his sore favorably then he bas done 10 the recent past.

1-...:..

---

## Page 104

14-00000

Incelligence Information Report

To lose t

752057115572

P.RI

DITION

CONTROLLED DiSSEN

COUNTRY

SURVECT

Possible IpoTesert In Partures of

Clerard josesh-Ja-les rossiale eason

10r Presidect arlier's jarsy Treat-

nest of Caaries/Eclipse of lucilbert

Pancard

DATE OF INEQ AT 69

PLACE B DATE ACQFENE-EU-IT-

=ce, E2:t1/65 69

COTPIDINIIAL

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

Supplement To:

HO DISSEM ABROAD

00-9-322/70768-69

22 APR 1969

003-322/07220-69

003-27/06914-69

1.

During recest seeiss, the fortunes 0i Clesand Josgeh-ure-les seen

# have improved.

Se has been plaging a sot unicortant sole 1a

ne trand of tue faitiza fastino conceision (Collector's Iste:

2.

to his incameration, ise does seem to have recovered sose on abe

corridence vales the Besicent used to sepose in it..

One reason for president Devaller's dislise or Maries (Bad doe

castile reeses siy ice prestient eventhally tered lla In 1331

5 trat Charles bas instusental in bringiz Bocut the bettiss

of the President's daughter, yarde-jenise Purelie, to colosel

tax Destrice, Juarles and jenie-seaise bare deen close siends

for say years. lette-Denise berase pregant by losuique sod

vest to Carles for kelf.

merles ties latervened sith ires1-

dest Duvalles, no was arious, end persuaded its to egree to

the nazirge.

Te Presidest has bitterly engty & Dostrigue and

somersat unfort blased airies sor toe santiago. he sates to

the recessisy. for the vedding, but reseated its ser 502-12-125

B¿, by associazion, so to speas, resented Carries.

Bie President

and De inique dare sossally reconclied. te President set balecel

andrique 8= tbe airport, lea tre latter retured to islai, asi

ade a point on inritiny his son-in-inu to ride in tre prestientla

lousine tova ise alpart to the palace: lie purpose vas to

desastrate the burial ol cid grudges.

It realis to be sees,

hoverer, whether or lo: the recodelliation vas benuine and vietter

or not the President has really forgivea his son-in-lay.

CONTIDBETIAL

L ONSEMMAIED TO CONIZAC:

---

## Page 105

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSE

COSPIDBNTIAL

-2.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

p0B-321/20768-69

30

Luc-Albert Freard, Haltian lunister of TourisE, IS IOW In politio

cal, 11 not personal, eclifee.

He no longer goes to his oifice.

The flew York City manager of the Faltian Tourist Jureau, Jeen

Sorel, 1s 10 Ea1t1 and 15 acting In Foucard's steed.

Rasah

Tneodore, Dejaty Director of Tourian, 1s aniable ad 15 8 friend

of President Duraller:

He 13, however, of little stature and

1s not capisie of doing artning nore than the ros-lne dally

chores of the office.

Foucard cannot afford to call attention

to hinself, becease he is ?earful for the physical safety of

his sister, jedaze Sairt-üictor.

President Duvalier resently

diswissed ber as his perscin secretary and replaced her with

his daughter, ille of Colonal l'ax Dominique. Since then, rumoro

have abounded teat ladene Saint-Victos ray be ziced for physi-

cal Liquidation /Collector's tote: see refereace. • Whether

or not these -wore bave aaj scandation in fact, tee 13 no

doubt that the sembers of the Poucard fazlly (1 e, Iuc-Albert,

f'adase Salst-71cLOT and tbeir sister, ¿'adare Bella Poucard

Poltrien) hate all sade tresselves as Inconspicuous as possíble.

The Presidest's change in secretaries has led to a diminution

of the power and influence o? the Foucard clan.

MIIAL

---

## Page 106

14-00000

1srarck69

SECRET

(then Filled In)

REGISTRATION REQUEST

28,910

DATE

808 по.

357029

NAME

CHARLES, Clemard Joseph

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLIDE VARIATICAS

DATE OF DIRTH

PRESENT ADDRESS

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT

SAVEL

ADDITIONRL PERTIMENT IDENTIFYIXG DATA

PLACE OF BIRTA

CITIZENSNIP

OCCUPATION

SD

11612

is torninesed tithout prejüdice by the Deparinent of the iray.

For additional information, you are referred to the Army Source Registry.

DATE: 17 Mar 69

SECRET

(hen Filled In)

GROL? : 1

EXCLIDED FROM ALTOWATIC

DORN'GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

FORN 1797

---

## Page 107

14.00000 :

DEPT OF STATE ATRURAN

A-I4

FFON AMEMBASS: PORT AU PRINCE

DATE: 1 FEERUARY 1959

CLASSIFICATIO:: SECRET

SUSJECT: ALLEGED PLOT OF CLSVARD JOSEPH CHAFLES

---

## Page 108

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED.

INTERNAL

0.

ONLY

O CONFIT TIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUAECT: (Oprional)

reataniel 3.

Shine for GS!usulin/js.

DCS/Operational Support Staff

900 Key Building

Letters fros Clenard Charles, Haiti, to US Officials and Businessaen

EXTENSION

на

DES Case 47540

DATE

2268

10 January 1969

Та: Юты

sode

nator, and

DATE

OFFIEr'S

INTALS

SECRET

RECENED

DO/DESL

X/Н/7/Haiti

3 B 0001, Hgs.

3.

Attached, for your inforcation,

is copy of PHI-457-68, with

attachreni.

15/1

$.

*"E

r. Retarn to

ATTN: VINCE

2-E-03

10

81.

12

To 8: Plo file

in charles dor.

1009

610 monous

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 109

14-00000

UNITED STATES GOVERIMENT

Memorandum

257-457-50

TO

•Director, Icestic Catact service

DATE: 2i DESEZZES ISUE

AttI

: Interastlonal Divisica (GAlyez)

FROSs : Chiel, Fallacelphia Cilee

SEBJECT: Letters poo cleard Charles, Elti, to US O1f1clals end businessen

Ref : Pb11 00-3-521/36501-E8 asted 17 Dee 68

Asteched for your inforsation are letters fron Clerard jesega Charies

addresses to Vee President Huber 5. Fumicrey and President elect Ricaaro

11303.

Isese letters vere reseiied 1a jessch iron Charles, in Eaisi, by

Donali Lo joie, source di referance, and brought to the US by ica laster.

The lestars save not been delivereá as oi tais date. Bore gians so ask.

the fer Jersey: Talrä District lezcer on tie L'S House of Represertatives

to deliver tices.

In acdition to the correstondence referred to ebove, riche aisa se-

ceived letters of introduction iros Cherles to:

Howard i. Burris (celieved to te a lavyer)

Suite 101, RCA 31112193

1725 K. Street, I.i.

Hasbington, DiC.

20006

Mr. A. E. Incledon, Vice President

3. Go anite Ingiceering Corg.

80 Broad Street

dew York, I. Y. 10004

tot 5. 408 a 011o to a 20)

New Yoris, N. Y. 10013

Mr. Ferman Albert Miller (en accountant)

230 W. 41st Street

Nev Yor's, M. Y. 10036

Mr. I. V. Rosello (an old friesd and very

reliable acquaintance of Cherles)

Earport Credit jesters Fezispiere Corp.

4T7 Jadison Aveave

New Yark, Il. Y. 10022

The eécressees are iadiviäuals iron whor Charles is seeking fisancial

assistasce.

JAY BA

L. REEVES

BRiaison/cjs

Attsaraents

Buy US. Strings Bonds Regularly on ibe Payroll Savings Plan

01357020

---

## Page 110

14-00000

559:2

Calad.

Ii Bresident

scalierco,

quel j'as suivi

¡Cis IC CETUS, E N'ON FiS CONtOTY EI

18S1 JONiZIt, La "CiS CONLI TOTIO ITORIS DIC-TiER

Ja lo ertrais Emácés $1:23.

TOUE ETCS fILE dO VOLIE LICUI, LALI

TOCa ETOI pOITIO

taat su'11 y a qualauò cosa qu'os no pout ócarre

DES 209, I013 dU daS TOÑOS - 1I0 CalItUTO qui CIsES

so l0 zorão.

• BUi CÓ GES. 2 Ó1S déCICÓ ENTIVOIS.

Ts. ToICHt 1-15=10 0ª 1106=10150 ¿O

Cartes, Jour attaindro l'ouisê do Tos 22

LUEDiES. VOUS ICLE DICS CrETaTS dO l'OSFOiI CO

Cousculer 10s {153 01 325 túiz35o

goo doguis lu Ligase la rictoiro constituit sosti-

queent ire Laoura, có qu'il fallalà comerces 3una

sota c'ont dira quo j0 sonio cot súct sir des 1015o

Fassonens guo lo sileau ost tiró, do

proada pludria i conaliT des VODLI 30i5 4l0 53 z0t5-

20.

da sadã, ¿ora sácáios lo irisident stasci,

roado ¿ue l'ous vivtus".

000/02

---

## Page 111

14-00000

Le Fiésident

Jo tous ¿to, ¡collenco, do socorola

soctibios d'associesca: co d'adis=ation.

CHERIE DESTER CITES P.I.3.

CJC/D=]

siniteine

---

## Page 112

14-00000

3-4H1N &0SK4IN 5111I51

Lo Frésielent

Po=t-cu-?sir.co, la 8 LOVESATO 15E3

KOnsIEu lO BÚSicUnE =2U,

Ica initicao d'allieno, l03 élerticia Frósidero

in ofico, le lorde vIs

tier a carodiatré lus alllésantos z'acos de Is

campagno dicetosula qui dirruis ajati= à votro la

TinGENEi ¿ la PRéSIdEaCO dos Ia-tris d'=áTi-uO.

cOuffle EL 1'1-4-1-42. C0NIC{4T40 d0 I2 ICISO ot

do jos rajonsanas: iaro 10 jorão.

TOLE ICULISOZ, LONGIONI

10 Frúaidea: ¿lu, d'in prostiza incontestó.

Ja cuis dare cestzin

guo, sous To50 ictinistra len, 10s tate-üI18

d'iáriquo, arso lo prustigo qua in donrea: ion

Hon do in-dessida dü jerio iijna et da placo do

prELuI pian jar1 los autros fa:loas du ilebe jus

Cosa 2a rasiata que jo

POriO : l'OCCASiOr. dO "O-JI EZI0Syi0 RuE Électioro

PIUDLECTTICLICO MITiCIINCIO

¿o toLs jale do Iceerali,

FORBIDiO lO FÚSIUCHE MA, DED TUCEI SIACiSCO IOLI

Potro Jonharo puscoanal ot le prestárids. du gougio

ANGLICIII®

'i!

CJC/ps2 .

---

