# 104-10176-10222

## Page 1

104-10176-10222

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MO SET COMMIT!

LIRING-3

FILE: TITLE/NOIBLP/VOLIII:LIRING-3

501-0798.301

vol.

VI

INCISIVE DATIS: _1_ Jan 1965 -- 10 May 1912

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATTON:

-CILEXO

no: 3257..

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

DATE

TAIT:

PECH VED RITURNED

A7 JUL 1978

so Der.

Edum_ I. Laper

__ PHOENTAL CUECTAL

Elvin furan, Jogg.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE CO00!D 00

---

## Page 2

to.dtianiaoninntinitariabin@r@wioned.ose.me

DiHER ABENCY

-/ DUR ENCLRISES

201-0798341

ceash..5.e

Be leea application

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

CUTIFLANCE

SECRET

PROCESNG ACTION

BARNES PIR NDEKING

Chief, hih Division

ка.

FeBA

Chief of Station, Guatemala City

Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City

' PBRUMEN/LIRING -3

ATION BIQUIDS - ESERINGS

¡DELY SALERED DESI

CAN NECE BEDEXING

MERORES!

Action Required: None, FYI

files' is fo Agent service

Forwarded herewith for Headquarters information and

Record on LIP.ING-3.

2. As Addressees

are aware, tallace P. RANTAN rainitar

and formerly handled LIRIiG-3 for the Mexico City Station.

Prior to RONTON'S PCS departure from Mexico City in July 1969,

it was deciced, after some discussion although LIRING-3 apparently

to ettect a turnover of

LIRING-3, rather than terminate him.

beontacts with meers of ere Rebel he see forces taxes of

he seemed to nave maintai:.ed

in May and June of this year, he had

develos access

to some Panamanian revolutionaries of

It was therefore decided to rur LIRING-3 on a trial

basis to determine whether he could be used effectively against

Central American revolutionary targets, daspite his problems

the Cubans.

Greek tus inessman,

it was decided that

it would be preferable

"clear the air"

somewhat with LIRING-3, at least by making it

....Continued

Attachments:

l.Agent Service Record - Herewith

2. IDENTITY Sheet - Under Separate Cover

Dated 3 5;02

w/att 2 (u/s/c)

Birtt;

CS COPY

APADI SARBOS AND SCRASER

HMMA-37739

SECRET

21 August 1969

303 ME HUNTER

- 201-795301

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISEATCH STUBEL AND NEMELA

HM44-37739

clear that he was in rouch with a lOLADY organization.

and he requested nexe.

no specific explaration was given LIRING-3 of his sponsor

seeing

LIRING-3 was told that TORMET would te

some months, since RONTON was leaving the country

for an indefinite period.

4. LIRING-3 was told that although TORMET was trusted by

collaborated with him, he represented a different

organization.

LIRING-3 was also told that although he had in the

past been

receiving between 3,000.00 and 3,550.00 Mexican pesos

an inforral basis,

feit that

this stage

of the operation.

TORMET explained that he was aware

of LIRING-3's past activities directed against tre Cubans, and the

resultant problems which had arisen.

It rias explained that

Mif TORIET'S

interest was

in Central Averican revolutionary activities.

In order to deal with LIRING-3's virtual "burneo"

status with the

Cue Cubans was directed to tell any Central imerican contacts that

no longer

trusted him, and that he therefore was no

longer directly involvec with any revolutionary groups or activities.

Nonetheless, LIRING-3 was directed to offer any assistance which

ne coura pruviue cu

any revolutionaries,

leftist beliefs and

the friendships which he had made with faf

members while in prison in Guatemala.

could learn whether LIRING-? nes complete?

blacklisted in all revolutionary circles becaise of his proulems

with the Cubans or whether he could provide information of value.

LIRING-3 throughout the meeting seemed in good spirits

and he seemed to accep"

the turnover without any qualms.

he pointed out that the Cubans had lost trust in him only after

he had been given various casks to ao by Rüntür which he has known

and warned in advance would cause suspicion.

It was agreed that

LIRING-3's troubles were not of his own making, but

that at this

stage all that could te done was to attempt to circumvent the

existing problems.

LIRING-3 was given a Station non-attributable telephone

to ask for

(Identity)

to set up meetings

a prearranged pickup point was decided upon.

chat TORMET's OP vehicle was used for this first meeting wich

LIRING-3, which means it was of course exposed to LIRING-3.

Subsequent to this meeting, LiRING 3 never

• initiated

contact with the Station.

he might have lost the new

telephone number he was given to use with TORMET, there is no

he ever again tried to call ROWTON, nho was in Mexico

for at least three weeks after the l July turnover to ToRMet.

The Station assumes that for whatever reasons, ÜIRING-3

has in effect terminated himself.

this case--

fact that LIRING-3 was denounced in Cuban official circles as

a RVROCK agent, the fact that LIRING-3 in over two years was never

very productive and now the apparent decision oi LIRING-3 to break

contact--it has been decided to make no effort to reestablish

contact with him.

Learnt S, I at

for Horace E. PRALLETT

201-33551

¡ PAGE NO

FORM

R.f8

53 a

UEE PREVIOUS IDITTON

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

---

## Page 5

SECREI

ATENT SREVICE FECCID

1i Agent Septons LIIIIC-3

3 project: HIT DIS

3. Azent Recruited 3y: callace ForCiFUl

4. Cagacity in haich igant Served:

iceess agent to Cuban

Eabassy; Tafisa-"

on Central Maricon revciutichy arcurs and actirities.

5a Rate of Pay:

6.

Other Cocmitrents:-cre

To Agent Disissed 37: jeonard S. MESI. Dississal efiective 1 July 1955.

8.

Reason for Dismissal: goat in eizect terminated hiusell,

since he failed

to initiate contact nith stavich siter being turred

over to Ttist

9. security Risks: 121215-3 ses rot sede fitting of EVliCK interest in lais

case.

What in alies.

sio safenuuses were ex-

posed to iI: I50-3.

LIFIN-3 ras-et cree in IUFiET's &F vehicle.

10. Beauditjoltsise

Manci- cl Dississal: is st=ted above,

zo direct sis osal Has made, sirce

LInI'a:-3 brete off contact bith the Station.

12. letter of Termination Signed:

123. Cost of Iersination: Hone

15. Chief of S:ation:

Borace E.

(Signature Pseusins)

SIGREI

---

## Page 6

SE

RET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO HIMA-37739

IDENTITY:

14-54-49, "Sr. Zuniga"

OS COPY

SECRET

S/C +T51 +0(693.52.37739

208-798508.

---

## Page 7

14062: DrES

I-HEF TO FILE!

DESTROY O SIG- -

34

FEPROOUCTION PRSHIDITES

PERSON

SECRET

WAIT 00: 191ED

ACTION

WH8

I, 13 2006,

X RID COPY

MEXI

SECR

É T 040003Z CITE

MEXICO CITE 237

GUATEMALA CITY INFO DIRECTOR

1P

4 his 67 4 25 197

PHOTO LEOVARDO (CASTILLO) HOHNSON, CHIEF SAN MARCO

GUERRILLA AREA, GUATEMALA, SHOWN LIRING-3 WHO DID NOT RECOSNIZE.

L'IRING-3 STATED HOWEVER THAI MOISES (OROZCOS LEAL TOLD HIM 31 JULY

/TRAT CASTILLÒ HAD BEEN KILLED. OROZCO ALSO IMPLIED DAVID

(CASASOLA) MEJIA ALSO DEAD.

SECRET

W.T

BI

SECRET

ABSTRACT

201-798301

281-812145

REJECTED FOR MICROFILM

MICROKELNED

AUG 70 1567

DOC MICRONIE

B201-812145.

201-79830/

LIRING;

---

## Page 8

DOC. STMOL & A3

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT ILENTIFICATICA

DaTE OF DOC.

PILE CLASSIFICaTIOn OF

MECCAO SCAY

DOC. SURJECT

SOURCE IAFORUATIDN

SOURCE CRYPTONTA

DATE OF INTO.

ETALUATION

TEXT OF DITRACT (AleO

doc.

borion. Діллет. Nо..

• Il asplicable)

JUP.ADO,

CARLOS

201-798301

SEX M DÓB

050-009-016

НММ - 13035

10 MAY 72

CIT

MEXICO

P2

OCE ?

‹ MEXICO MOR OF THE COALITION OF REVOLUTIONARY

ARTISTS OF MEXICO. HAS INITIATED CAMPAIGN IN

SUPPORT OF THE CURRENT LEFTIST STUDENT

STRUGGLE.

R 7206051060

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which This

Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJRET DA 801 (LOOR. Plead. Middlo)

302-298301

толи 86?

0-00

SECRET

---

## Page 9

CABLE SECRETRO AT DISSEMINA ON

hinweeuet w,.d.1e

AOVANCE COM

ISBUED

DISSEM OY

MEN

ACTION

WH/COE8

cushese risurt

SECRET

(Whan Filled In)

TOTA COES

400.0e

I SLOTTRO

IMI No

31

¿Assieo to nie noe 2u La TOEECI

d.a2e 10 8iLE 000 -

P'LE DO EDer 1O

Daocey, e WHS

ARAmNO

RI/AN

BCUTEF ANCIORIRNTRES. SCEN EY LUM/L

1.7

DESTAONI SUC

SECRE T 271662Z

FRP 68 CITE

GUATEMADE CIJX 95 11

GUAT

DIRECIOR INFO MEXICO CITY

LiSari 1n 0 1113

IYPIC LIRING

REFERENCE : DIRECTOR 36,584

LO MEXICO CILY IDÕS MUI KLCEIVEU

DY GUALLMALA

Giilo

2. FILE 221-798321.

SECRET

A3 ft!

AB

B*

BES

H7D

•US COPY

SECRET

howas

861-7188301

+7 89941965

---

## Page 10

UsAITa

WH/1/3E04

DATI

4167:1973

DATEL A

October 1968

CASLI SZCENRATINS MIRGEIAILASIONI

SY_

COMPT

WH8

DASSAGE FOGA

TOTAL COMMEIS

SECRET

_23

DESTION

FI M a F на.

LOUTING AND! EN INTIALS - SEEN IT

10

веток та

DID COPY

то Г

Justo ond tumo triao,

(retoresco

SCRET

A U 20

GUATERALA CITY INTO: 12100232fCTE8

REPS: A. GUATEMALA CITY 9517 (IN 02560) *

B. DIRECTOR 36584*#

CITE DIRECTOR

38881-

LIKING-S

201 Whe

I. APPRECIATE REP A RESPONSE. AGREB WE DO NOT MANT SURFACE

WOFIRM INTEREST LIRING-3 OR WIFE TO GUATS IF CAN BE AVOIDED.

: 2. RET B WAS SENT FOLLOWING DISCUSSION WITH LIRING-3'S

CASE OFFICER, ROWTON FRO STILL TOY HOS. AFTER FURTEER DISCUSSION

WITH ROWTON, HOWEVER, WE PREFER GUAT STATION TANE NO ACTION ON

REFERENCE B REQUEST UNTIL RONTON RETURNS MEXICO. HE CAN THEN AT-

TEXPT OBTAIN UPDATED READING ON LIRING-S STATUS FROK LIRING-4 OR OTHE

SOURCE, AFTER WHICH ROWTON AND MEXICO CITY STATION CAN DECIDE IP

ESKAJOR-20 INTERVENTION WARRANTED.

3. INDEX 201-248917, 201-798301.

END OF MESSAGE

ALLANIMO OFFICER

1-2...

COOAOTMATIMO ORRICIES

201-298301

AUTATNTICATRN

SECRET

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHES THAi TAF ASTA NO OFFICE IS PADMIRITED.

ест на

---

## Page 11

ока

40002

WE / 3201

DATI

CAKE DEXTITALAAS DASSEILOLADON

8Y.

COASTS

19

RID COPY

BITIRCI FORA

PERIL COPIESI

SECRET

PRINT

100I

Fal

AUSTNE AND/OE IMTULS - SELY AS

10

BRANCH

FILE DO

FAL DIES FINA

SEGREI

PAGE 2

то

Г

CIA DIXECTOR

32881

.7

7

та, 'ї

nC1.

On LIRING-3's behalf to learn when big

trial rould take place or possibly to obtain his

release.

Station reluctant surface WOFIRy interest

however without Mexico City Station concurrance.

*#Headquarters commented on lact LIRING-A recently

took up residence in Cuban Embassy, Mexico City

because lacked funds pay rent.

Also asked Guatemala

Station if could arrange for

early release LIRING-3

and associata fros jail through high lovel Guet

official.

SM

DECA

FILLIAN V. BROA

for

CANHD

NH/00G/25

шукрі.

KAUFKAN

C/WH/1

(COMPIMANHO OFRACERS

SECRET

(trance in a see

• KEPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN-THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

ANTRINTICATURO

ORPICAN

com на

Senion

---

## Page 12

14-00000

conside

-----

: 24 September 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

WH/1

FROM:

SUBJECT:

PARTICIPANTS:

7 Septemky 1968 discussion with DRISCOLL

e LIBLISS & LIRING/4

DRISCOLL, VURBE, FRANCIS and Laurenc

PIPER (C/WH/2/G) .

1.

LIRING/4 is still very concèrned about the im-

prisonment of LIRING/3.

LIRING/4 will not travel to Cuba

until she is assured of the cafaty no troine.

nas enorougnly discussed 1/3 with L/4 and has pointed out

the danger of attempting le intercede on L/3's behalf.

through business contacts. L/4 contacted the Cubans for

assistance but

they stated there was nothing they could do.

They have assisted 1/4 with small amounts of moneyto let

has devised an open code which he uses in letters

L/4 know how he is.

The letters are grim reading because

L/3 keeps stating he is unable to hold out much longer.

Fellow prisoners have warn:d L/4 not to let the Guats

transfer him to another prison

as this usually ends in the

prisoner being shot

"while escaping."

One good result

from the continued

imprisonsent of L/3 is that both he and

L/4 are furthering

their bona fides with the Cubans. i

2.

tary

4/4 is in telephone contact with the Third Sécre

of the Mexican Enbassy in Guatenala.

He has made

inquiries about

L/3 with the Guats on behalf of Foreign

Minister CARRILLO Flores.

A few weeks ago (prior to the

assasination of the U.S. Ambassador) the Third Secretary

told L/s there vere three possibilities, the first which

he considered out of the question was that L/3 rould be

shot, the secord was that 1/4 would come to trial and be

released within a few weeks, and the third was that he would

receive a sentence of two or three years.

Just prior to

departing

Mexico

to atrange a meet

on this current trip,

DRISCOLL attempted

with L/4 in the usual means by slipping

typed note under

her apartment door.

She did not make the

meeting.

DRISCOL later learned through phone tap material

that she called the Cuban Rabassy aud informed them the

SECTET

201-898301

---

## Page 13

14-00000

COSTET.

- 2 .

Mexican authorities had notified her she was being fined

500 pesos.

The purpose of the payment was not identified.

she made a call fron the Cuban Erbassy which indicated

she was staying there until she could get the funds to pay

DRISCOLL, therefore, concluded she had not

returned to her apartment and

did not get the note to make

DRISCOLL said SUAREZ (the visiting Cuba

Cultural type) has a key to L/3's apartment and night see

be unable to identify the sender since

DRISCOLL uses a meaningless scien as a signature.

3.

DRISCOLL now plans upon his return to lexico to

recontact L/4 to get the latect

112°= st=tus

isi

11 the Mexican Charge is unable to obtain L/3's

release ir behalf of the

Vexicans and if it appears he will

be held indefinately;

DRISCOLL wants to explore the possibility

of

our doing something to get L/3 out so the operation can

become active again.

4.

In the above regard L/3 was discussed with dr. PIPER

of the Guatemala

desk.

Ir. PIPER believed the Station has

a high enough contact with the Guats (ESV:JOR/20-Presidents

brother) to arrange to get W/3 and his Mexican copatriot oul

of prison and back to Mexico with a minimun security risk.

DRISCOLL said he would initiate the cable upon his return to

Mexico after he has

talked with L/4. DRISCOLL felt he should

possibly travel

to

Guatenala and have a preliminary neet with

L/3 before Guat Station nakes any all out effort to officially

request Li3's release.

If, after seeing L3 DRISCOLL is satis-

fied

that L/S is still an ally and is willing to cooperate

after his release tben DRISCOLL belieres we should attempt to

have the Station intercede with ESNAJOR/20.

Hopefully, ESHAJOR/

20 will arrange the release so that all involved believe it

has been done

at the request and urging of the

Mexican Govern-

ment.

he

DRISCOLL, however, would like L/3 and Li4 to believe

(DRISCOLL) had something to do with the release in order

to raise his status with both for the sake of future operation-

tasks he will levy on them.

SEGET

---

## Page 14

CABLe EOF ME TAMAR. I

SABIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL LORES

GROUP 1

170003 1808 151 PARTR

/ Whan feed ty

REDAGGUETION DE THIS COFI PRCMIBITED

20N2OSA 100Y

SLOTTED

₴

10

X-ARE TO FILE NO -

FILE RIO I NET TO

DIBEEN 8N

ACTION

BRANCHO

4WH/5075

DrID COPY

SECRET BA238TL OCT

68 CITE MEXICO CITY 7486

DIRECTOR, GUATEMALA CITY

REFS: A. DIRECIOR 3655A

DESTROY I'SIG

S0T63M606501

C. HMMA 355 22 PARA 5

LIRING-S

1. STATION WISHES TO REITERATE ONCE MORE IIS RELUCTANCE TO

SOMEKO& TRY TO FREE LIRING-3 FROM JAIL IN GUATEMALA CITY BY GOINS LUC

TO LIAISOS AND EXPOSING HIS WOFIRM CONNECTICT. MEXICO CITY STATION

IN AGREEMENT WITH REF B STATEMENI THAT MORE TIME SHOULD BE ALLOWED

TO SEE IF LIRING-3 WILL NOT BE RELEASED IN NOI TOO DISTANI FUTURE

WITHOUT INDICATING WOFIRM INTEREST. AS STATED IN REF C. SUCH INDICA-

SION IF II LEAKED CAND STATION ASSUMES THIS POSSISLE IN GUATEMALA; GR

IF IT AITPACTED SUSPICION GUAI REBELS, MEXICAN LEFTISTS OR

FBRUMENERS WOULD RENDER FURTHER OPERATIONAL EXPER ILAIION LIRING-3

AND LIRING-A PROBLEMATIC. IT MIGRT EVEN PROMPT GUAT REBELS TO

TAKE REPRISALS AGAINST LIRISG-3 AND LIRING-4. FURTHERMORE STATICS

NOT AT ALL SURE THAI FREEING LIRING-3 THROUGH IATERVENTION

LIAISON MIGHT NOI JEOPARDIZE MONTON SECURITY.

20 IF LIRING-3 RELEASED AFTER NORMAL TRIAL WITHOUT ANY

INDICATION OF OUTSIDE INFLUENCE STATION ASSUMES BOTH HE

AND L11!50-4

SECRET

201-7982301

---

## Page 15

14-01110

AT:

DISSEA

SECRE

(Wheen Filled in)

HEPHORUCIHA LE THIS COPI PNMENTEO

INDIA

CLASSIPY TO DUE NO

X-REE TO FILE PO-

PILE NiO CIRET TO

TAtO

LRiD COPY PILE va

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 7486 SECRET

WILL HAVE INCREASED OPERATIONAL POTENTIAL. IF LIRING-S NOT

RELEASED IN NEAR FUTURE LIKING-4 MAY FIGO ONLY WAY OUT HER CURRENT

PREDICAMENT IS AT LEASI TEMPORARY RETUPN TO FORUIREN. SHE MIGHT

AI THAT POINT BE AMENABLE UNDERTAKE MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT SHE

PREVICUSLY AGREEABLE ATTEMPT FOR WOFIRM.

3. STATION WOULD NATURALLY BE WILLING RE-EXAMINE ITS

POSITION RE LIRING-3 IF JUATEMALA CITY STATION COULD DETERMINE

BEYOND ANY REASONABLE DOUBI THAI APPROACH OF JUDGE THROUGH

LiAISON WOULD NOT LEAK. CAN GUATEMALA CITY STATION GIVE SUCH

ASSURANCE?

4. FILE 291-798301.

SECRET

main

SECRET

---

## Page 16

отко

cuts

DATES

e.w.

WH/COG/OPS

1255

30 SEPT 68

MASSAGE PORN

TOTAL CONTREE

SECREI

184

119

L

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

„SAS IN OS TILE DO

FILE ES

то Г

WH/C008

RID COFT

(clazutication)

SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT

GUATEMALA CITY

(acio and tuna fates;

41 18 21 2 0c769

e'res

CUE DIRECTOR

+99476-

Walif6:

LIRING -?

201

PIS RELAT MEXICO CITY-7335 (IN 99476) TO GUATEMALA CITY

POR INFU. CY CABLE ATTACHED.

END OF MESSAGE

C/W1/2/& Tunnel

ton

WILLIANT.

for

C/WED

BROB

COOROMATUNE OSFIOTTS

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER TILAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

20-295 30

CUTY MA.

---

## Page 17

REHORT COVER SHEET

SECR

018÷095 38818.18

OlIver N?ISINDONE

Roger T. KINCHAS/

IN0-12,647

22 Juss 1971

KDLADDER

KDLADDYA- 2

FIELO DISTRIALTICIA

Macisso aris

jesire sas e

114:

031 LOS ME. 1017

IS DISSEU RETICR

:7(8.01585818699620

3 Headquarters (u/nats)

1 Guatemala City

State (Political Suction)

arita

FF = 35-4-3

FF= 351-100

This report sas done to follon pattern of BD412, 183 end saror

source description vas used.

The reference to the RGG has In

indicate in sone way a different source,

since tho:descriptici

used on 1y 1s different.

RI please index the following:

BALCARCEL

CAR DOZA

ALVARADO

SOLORZANO

RODRIGUEZ

DIAZ,

PEREYRA

• II.LESCAS

GOXEZ

CAPLAYO

CACEREZ

LASDA

- 201-160130

201-042366

201-065125

201-072176

201-244191

201-787388

201-798301

201-764855

201-251194

201-086191

201-874524

- 201-S24363

Сатоло

35-4-100

35-4.7

"o0 1467

DUFLIGATHNDOR

EDE CROSS FiLING IN

206179539! 3

---

## Page 18

and.

ID. TOPRIET DISSES

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

•THIS IS AN ENORMAT ON EPCEY. NOT FIRALLY EVALUATED INTELNCENCE

E5GSET

REPORT NO. CS

DATE DISTR

¡ACO' i ESTICO, ENTICO CIES (11 JERE 19T1) FEDNO. EXIT 13, 617

SOURCE A RAFIT US tSO PON tO hER goal contacto vita Guatemalan

ECIETTIFTO ID ECLICO. LILI O1 tOO LITOGNIZION ENICE L

med a nomenate

me highett rentine baty of tha Gustenalan

"olegaten el the Cretral Conmietos."

Thig body con

nirarado trollero.

doso ilborto

(Field Carat:

CS-312/02979-70 (Ex8-12,183),

•150n tsA Mess finace sa this report, reported on the sale

•11D 09 t4O FUT ATTRIIZITICA ID ENSCO IS OL APTIl 1970.

=i Cariena and telaireel ardo un tea "Dolcgation ol the Ceatral

TD6S8141

- 71 (EGO

›, fros

¿E RELINDIA ECTOCO, FIOTIeSA ES9 RESOrEatloa that Alvarado,

to TENd Exeriery of the PIL, plansed to reaide la Merico

8. DalCEreAl aleS LEadS lLa "DITACtIVE ComItted" of

THE POT OTBCRIMEZICO 1O E2Z1EO,

valch 18 resporsible 105

de:M141105-5558468151103 lig local Psi OrEas1zation 0111

Easttito ced tha till curry ties ent.

Tuo other sembora of

Lie "Directito Cenalttes" STO AlICaSO S 0 1 0I 1 a 1 0

Aldson.

AlthOTEl BOdTIgROI

LILTILUS 29 DUS ASIS

---

## Page 19

2

FIC-INA NO FORTICI DISSEA

TETO aTO CArully tro setiva cella under the

a.. $-10u089591 Call hesded by Carlos

BELa, DALe BleO InCludeS SOlOrZADO

A "pleasco Doll" headad by Roiriquez,!

Balearcel,

FOTOgIA, pas Carlos

181000 =130579.

arrerly o prabes of tis "Pleenco Coll,

andro lisa "lisectivo Camlites" Id 1n not forcally a

menDar 0l tho "Fropagrada Coll," sataltted his resiguation

MAS SIrO fOTNATlY 1 PANIES OS CLO "Propeganda Coll," bao

bRED LE ROTATIly Reparated. Lca setiTo participa:100 10 the

FIOIS DESOR: 3E8t9 (AISO BORE CRATERAlA: CIEY)

:*

946288 80800

---

## Page 20

CABLE SECPETAPAT DISSETIMATIO

ASUED

ISLOTTED

STIKO MESSAGE

CORES

GR?UP: :

SECRET ME

# 5113685080

REFRODUCT DA OR IN 3 COSY AROMIR TIN

"TIRG RADICA IASTIALS - SEEN EY

101

CLASSIFY TO TILE DO

I-REN TO MILE tO —

_ PER

DESTRON 1 BIG.

ACTION

RIDCOPY

сіна

358

arap, class ala, 222, 0/01

SECRE I DEROJIZ MAY

69/CITE MEXICO CITY 8125

MEXI

DIRECTOR

8 Mar 69 W53298

TYPIC LIRING - 4

REFS A. MEXICO CITY 9838(454397)

1. FATHER LIRING-4 DIED 21 APRIL. LIRING-4 FEELING VERY;

BAD ABOUT FACT SHE DID NOT SEE FATHER BEFORE DEATH HAS NOW

APPLIED FOR VISA TO VISIT HER MOTHER IN CUBA. IF VISA GRANTED

PLANS SIAY ORLY

ONE OR TYO SEEKS.

2. RUNTON HAS NEPT AAY FROM LIRING-A SINCE LIRING-3

PLEASED FROM JAIL IN GUATEMALA AND LIRING-3 HAS TOLD HER KE

OUT OF CLANDESTINE BUSINESS. IF HES SO DESIRES HOWEVER ROUTON

COULD TRY RENEW CONTACI WITH HER TO SEE IF SHE WILLING ASSESS

SOME HER "FRIENDS" LISTED IN PARA LA THROUGH IF OF REF B OR AT

LEAST COLLECT UP TO DATE BIO INFO CH THEM. ESTATION HAS SUBJECT

PARA IE REF B PASTICULARLY IN MINDO THIS IS RETURN FOR PLANCIAL

HELP IN MAKING TRIP. PLS ADVISE.

3. FILE 281-798381:

SECRET

IS COPY

SECRET

RS

BX

DES NRO

Lo

261.898301

smay 69

---

## Page 21

14 Jun 69

dent to

RID/FI

Mer. Cly

cus

---

## Page 22

DISPATCH

CLASSHICALLON

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

MARKED FOR BAELIES

DAFO.

FROM

Chief, KH Division

Chief of Station, Guatemala City

Chief of Station, Mexico City'

нас, 73

HO INDEXING RI QUERED

OMLY QUALTIES DESA

CAN INDEE DESERTE

SUBAC

^ PBRUMEN/ The LIRING-3 Operation

АСТОН ВЕЖЕТО- GEFIRAS

Action Required: FYI

Reference

MICROFILMED

JUN 2 1969

: HUMA-36408, 11 February @FosyCHO.SER.

1.

Porwarded attached as attachment #l are ten contact

reports written by Wallace B. RORTON dated 1l,

14, 15, and

and 25 Anril. and 5

the latest developments of the LiRING-3 opuration.

Say on

2. The high points of ROWTON's reports are as follow:

Continued.

#rE;COnnECTION WITH 201- 798301#

Attachments:

1. Reports (10), b/w

2. Surveillance

report, h/w

3. Identity sheet, u/s/c

Distribution:

OrIg & 2 - C/IHD (a/atts - 1 copy each atts 1 and 2; 3 copies

2 - cos,

Guatenala City .(w/atts - 1 copy each atts 1

and 2; 2 copies att 3)

Doci

DESPATUR SI

CỘ 6578

HMMA - 37136

QLUSTUZATION

SECRETI

carretit

14 May 1969

^V201-798301

---

## Page 23

5=7=

weise: +717666506

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

reassroom

SECBIT

DISPATEN

CADI AND MUMBLA

HOMA' - 37136

b.

"Romulo, " who made at least one trip. "out

of town" from 17

February to 2 April 1969 (possibly

to Guatemala) during the period covered by ROtTON's

reports;

appears to belong to a faction of the

Guateralan FAR family disillusioned with PBrUMEN.

The only

real service asked LIRING3 by

"Romulo" during the period under review was to put

up an unidentified "Comrade" scheduled to come to

lexico at a date which "Roaulo" said he could not

deterine exactly. This "comade" was not the young

Guatemalan who dropped in on' LIRING3 for a couple

of days mentioned in the report dated 25 April.

d. LIRING-3 continues to collect clear evidence

that LIRING has done its best to denounce him as a

suspicious element definitely not to be trusted (see

reports datea 15 and 19 February).

3.

Several attempts to tail "Romulo" did not produce

particularly sienificant results.

A pretext investication

.of

apartment 102 of calle Coahuila, where LIRING3 net "Romulo,'

produced

the results contained in the Spanisn language report

dated 26 February-forwarded es attachment #2.

There were

traces on the Ines *BASIOY dex* PINaNTEL lamily• SEX:F

eit: mexico

4.

here is little question at this point that LIRINGS

is close to persona non grata with LIRING.

Hence, his further

usefulness against the PBRUMEN target is very linited.

RO#TOY has kept away from LIEINGA since LIRING3's release

from prison in Guatemala.

Although LIRING4, following her

father's death (see MENICO CIIY-0125), may visit her mother

in PBRUMEN, she has no particular love for LIRING or the PERUMEN

authorities.

On the Guatemalan side of this operation, the

Station is,

as it has done many times in the past, raiting for

LIRING-3's Guatemalan contacts to make the next move.

for Milfard C. CURTIS

530

USTI

SECBET

PAGENO

2 of 2

---

## Page 24

Aristories, #1inns:37136

11 Pebruary, 1969,

СОКРАСТ КУРСКТ

1. Agent:

257.

2. Date & Site of resting:

1100, 11/2/59; Ca=130 Real

3. Next teeting:

1000, 14/2/69; same place

4. Reports/Information Submitted by ivert:

MICROFILMED

JUN 2 1969

DOC MICRO. SER.

LIRIIG/3 told zowton that there bad seen littie or no derelorents

since be last sai loston (21/1/63), just before Morton bsà left on

his business trip to "onterre?. He cormented that he haù felt it

wiser not to teke any initiative in seering out his Pil irierds or

revisiting the lIring office until E.cion had returned. Ge stated

that bis old Guate=alan friend, Jacoto Rodriruez Padilla.hed cailed

oli him once in the company of Carlos jega, but zothing significant

had energed from the casual conversation. Vega, at several points

in the conversation, nad runbled scaetzing te zodriguez about the

"crisis" but nieber save an explanation. I/3 toid nonton that be as-

sumed that this remark referrred to the curren. factionalisa in the

Guateraran revolutionary struggle.

LIRING/3 then identified the attached photo of vario Argasto Fender

Aguilar inrediately at the first Elance as theù of "Rónuio", ara "Mario

Mendez" and "Pavel. - LIRIiG/3 diù sot recogrise the photo Zonton

showed him of kario Ovoriel Mendez toiina.

5. Guidance/Infornation Given to Agent:

Rowton tolá L/3 that

according to the very sketcay inforiation be

haá concerning lario jurosto lendez uilar it appeared that the latter

belonged to a strongly anti-PBRUMEl faction ans that this would perhaps

explain the turn-about of the LIRI•s after he, i3, had indicated to

LIRING/9 that he was in contact with "Pavel."

Rowton urged W3 to seek out "Rórulo" at the calle Coshuila 221 safe-

bouse, and, failing this, to recontact Humberto González ega at his

hose on calle Manzanillo, In the hope that the latter çould arraage.

a recontact with Fendez.

Wally

Blitan!

Kallace

3' noston

h/w att: 1

41)ma - 37136

IS COPY

201-798301

---

## Page 25

14 February, 1969,

CONTACT 32702T

1. Agant:

LIRIG/3

2. Date " Site of Meeting:

1000, 14/2/59; Casino Real estaurant.

3. liext Meetirg:

1100, 1512/69; sane place.

4. ADKINISTRATIVE: LIRING/3 5o1d Roston that his friend,

Zerta Higisses

has rented a furnianca avaruent that can be used by

bim

and loston as a safebouse as soon as it is vacated

by its present occupents. 113 explained that these co-

cupants are relatives of sra icisser sao are visiiias

Irom argeiiina but ino are errected to raturn to tseir

sun ananta within the tent tea iajc.i

5. REPORTS/INFORMATION GIVEN 3T AGENT:

1/3 tolà jeston that "Rórulo" (whos be ideatified Iros

a photo as "ario hugosto Merdez Azuilar) visited air at

ais home unannounced at about 2000 on 11 February and

stayed until almost ridrizht.

Accordire to 1/3 aónulo apolorized for not naving seen

1/3 for so lonz ( last date reported was 3/1/69, ex-

plainirs t=at he vas very busy. Ee the stated that he

had recently seen and talked dits Rodollo Sandoval Al-

egria in the(lucunberri)prison and was pleasantiy sur-

prised to iearn that Sandoval iner i/3 and spoke very

sighly of him. Rónulo then *eat on to say that be bad

known Sardoral mary years and had actually been his de-

puty in Guatemala. Bonulo recalled that when he wes last

arrested (le explained parenthatically that he had been

arrested four times in all) be was tortured in an effort

to make his reveal the wbereabouts of sandoval. He clained

to I/3 t=e' de finally, to aroid execution, gave a lalse

address- that of one of jandival's reletives.

1/3 told Forton that he then took the occasion to tell

aómulo of sce harrasssent be vas being subjected to by

various percons whon he felt vere bejas inspired by the

Chief LIRING. I/3 told routen that Ronudo then asked hin

that the false charges trougat against hi= were. IV3 told

Rómulo the truth, saying that de kept resting reports that

ho was reiarded as a surIly agent. leco-ding to 1/3.36-

aulo exclaired that he should pay no attention to trat

---

## Page 26

2.

sort of slander sisce the illino office was alwajs.

iTisE to neutralize persors and groups not actirg

urier their control. Ze added that the people who reail?

count in the struggle dere used to such nonseuse and

dere aware of wbat the lInInGs vere upito. He added toat

as 300n a8 jandoral zot out of frison he would "straighten

sone of those ecole out" since de jas personally avare

01 L/3's Lovires anà activities sefore tig trip to =e

border. *hen 1/3 mentioned his contacts with Carlos Vega

(alvays at tie latter's initiative), zónulo described him

as "Pastelito, a very sectarian sneaiy pro-LIRING bastard".

Ee said he would like I/3 to arrauze a beeting with vera

so that he could burst in and coniront him with the fects.

Rezarding Husberto Gorzález Vega, Roiulo said that be vas

a good "elevento" and had suffered a sreat deal for tee

cause, but at the nosent das sore or less out of the pic-

ture. He say no seed for 1/3 to be in contact, with his.

sten 1/3 expressed a desire to tave sore way of contacuing

Rózulo, the latter erceised to sire him bis home adaress

soon as he more to a better place. He explained that

at the noment be was living in a furnished room.

it the end of the tali, then Rózuio assed when they could

Eet together agais, explaining tbat he pigot have to go

doon to Crizzba over the week-end, 1/3 told Rowton that be

made a date for 1900 or 14/2/6% 1/3 tren surgested teat

they meet outside so as not to irvolve ais wife (1/3 toid

Forton that be did this so that torton would have a chance

to observe aczulo in sose public glace), and Ronujo agreed

but said he bad a better sucreation. He then stated that

he koen a Mexican family very veil and could arrange that

they meet at their hore and have dinner. He added that be

mickt bring along a Jrother ("beraaro") and would cose by

IU3's home at 1900 to pick him up. I/3 pereed, saylag stat

be had no objection to the brother comE along.

M 3 ROston

---

## Page 27

14-00000

15 February, 165?.

CENTACE POPCIR

1. Agent:

LI2INS/3

2. Date ¿ Site of FeetisE: 1100, 15/2/69; Casino Real restaurant.

3. Hext reeting:

100G, 19/2/69; Sase place..

4. Reports/ Infornation Givez 33 gent:

LIrIso, 3 reported that te net again with "Résulo" but under circuI-

stances sonerhat differe-t fron tiat anticiosted. I'3 related that

wher be arrived at his aartsent about 1850 The ficus evenirin

the corpany of his wife (aiter having droppei off his daugaier at

Aba bona de Lio canniñ=i be ivuna a note irca "romulo" ascing his to

meet him at apartment 102 of calle Coabuila 200.

I/3 continued that sirce bis wife was present woen be read the sote

be felt he had to ask her to come along (ard in addition ste bad been

upset that alternoon and diá not want. to be leit alone ). Tbej tberefore

both proceeded to the aláress ziven by Ruulo and fcuna hiz there in

the sidst of a rather large number of persons, apparently of the same

¡azily residing in the averteent. after about fifteen minutes el social

chatter, Póaulo suggested that they so to a learby restauract to talk

acre privately. Romulo tuen took I/3 and bis wife to the restaurant

Kudu at Calle Coabuila 223 tere they bad diener. id3 told oron toat

because of his vife's presence he was not able to discuss anythica sub-

stantive with somilo ars cad to leave the questions ke wanted to ask bim

re PAR/BBRUMs activites uvil a subsequent reetinz. I3 saded tcat in

the course of conversatios, loculo stated that Rodolfo Sandoval aleria

hoped to be released fros prison in farch, 1969. Rosulo also stated that

he worked in a neuspaper office, but I/3 felt he could not securely asis

the name of the newspaper a that time.

W/3 told Roxton that Ronulo agreed to another reeting on 18 ?ecruary and

esked 1/3 to net him again at apartrent 102 of Coaruila 200 suortly after

1900, inasnuch as he fezerally leaves his place of employent & little

before that tibe. nonulo, a3 and his wife then took in a movie.

Ils then told sorton that aiter held left Rotton the previous day be had

another very disturbing experience (he appeared to Routon rervous and sur-

tering fron lack of sleept 4/3 explained that then be dropped into the

Salộn de la

Plastica Yexicana soort 1300 on 14/2/69, be ran into an old

Indena, baling Haved, a letican srtist with who: he had worked very closely

Ia PsaUreN sode years ago. ils continued to Acrton that despite thelr

---

## Page 28

14-00000

2.

past friendehip, reeny havel treated hit in an ourious cold manner.

13, feeling trat de could not this pass unroticed, got zanny in ine

corder and asced stat das up. the replied that for sole tire she cad

been bearing "sisturbing reports" about 1/3. Under further questicing

by I/3 sne specifici thatoricinally, sore 7-ô contes previously sbe

had been told by a bidniG official that 1/3 "was not to be trustéd".

Lanny continues tner she did lot cay too such attention to this, siece

tae official vas rainer "loi-jevel", but sore recently ste ras/told the

sane thing by an "wipeacbable source" and could not challenge it des-

pite her higa personal estees for 1/3.

1/3 consented to sorton that the "ininpeachable source"

', aust, be the Chief

WEING, inasauch as Faany Ravel as aliays been a close pe: rohal rierd

of his and possibir even ore of his zistresses. I/3 continied that itat-ca

ned several vines corrented to hir (when 1/4 was working in the lIzInG

cifice) that Fanny havel tas infrequent telephone contact vita the Chiel.

5. EUIDANCE Given to agent:

Rowton told I/3 that be was zore convinced than ever that the lIaliG

office had nountes = slander operation agairst his jecause of is con-

tacts vito the Cazillo Garchez group (Leén Barrics brothers ana Zonulo)

which Partrai sas apparently aitenpting to isciate in their oun interest.

aben 1/3 appeared a little consoled at this, Routon continued that se

felt 1/3 sbould, at the 18 Feb seeting with "Rómuio", tell the laster trat

he kne's the gaze the IIkIEs sere up to and ask "Pónulò" oint blank

whether be icew to what extert the lIatiG ofice yas tryirE to sabotage

FAR because of its nationalistic anti-ispurai position. Zorton asked I/3

to entice "Pórulo" i=to such a discussion in the hope that "Romulo

would ast kin, I/3, to help discover asy unilateral operations PReMEN

Bifat be planinE. Reston continued that I/3 scould tell foculo that

although be was ritually cut off fron the lInING office, he still had

a great cany FElLa: Iriends ( a 6.

1) from

shon he could possic? set useful information to help Bomalo's faction.

Roxton suigested that 1/3 could also propose to honulo that they both

put the squeeze os Carlos VRa (apparently a lilaliG provocation) to do-

sone prelicinary inforsation en the intestions of the LIrinG, opera:1o1.

W. B. Rowtona

---

## Page 29

19 February, 1969

CONFACE ROR-SE

1. Agent: IIEING/3

2. Date i Site of reeting:

1000, 19/2/69; Senino Zeal Restzurant.

3. Piext Meeting:

Sese tine, same place, 21/2/69.

4. Reports/Infornati: jiven by teent:

LIRING/3 reported that "pérclo" appeared urancounced at his apartect

on the late afternoon of 17/2/59 and consequently he did sot go to seet

him at aparteent 102 of 20O Soabulla it. on 15/2/69 as crizinally plansed.

IIRING/3 told Morton that "gizulo" prozised to see bin again about 1500

on 20/2/59, cosia5 to sick bin up at bis apartaent.

IIKIiG/3 then stated that on the amine ne 99/0160 ho has -=

.*=

i==.

Godoy, tie wife of Jerge, at Sobernación ard ras so disturbed at the cos!

reception thai he looked up jorze Godoy later that day to find out that vas

going on. jorge Godoy was quite frank with bia telline bir that the il-I:g

office nad advised bis to beep clear of LIRI:a/3 because he vas not to se

trusted. Godoy continued that a LIkI.G official had told nim that WRIrG/3

•was being used ( perhaps urcoasciously at firsty ly sone counter-rezolu-

tionary creenization and thai the lIftiG Office based it assertion on the

following three points: (1) HIAlliG/3 bad been in touch witi a foreignor voo

pretended to be a businessman but who did sot do any büsiness with aaron,

(2) LIRI5G/3 bad access to ictorsation that could cose only iron a police

source (3) LIR-KE/3 was respossible for the arrest of IdentitylA

bad undertaken the mission to Guatenala to get informatic agaiust che re-

volution.

According to iIRILG/3, dorge Godoy told hin tcat it was difficult to beilre

all this, especially in the light of I/l's reiatively long inprisonment, but

he had to take it seriously in vies of the source of the caarges. 1/3 tr

toid Routon that he went over each point in rebuttal on a satter of pricciple

despite the fact that Godor's sind obvio sly vas already aide up.

iIÄl'G/3 told Roston that when he talked later that day with "ñámulo" be re-

lated what had nappened with Godoy: "nóculo" replied that those LIBIG al-

legations vere not to de taken seriously. He corsented: "se have already

looked into then ard do not telieve thea." He explained that for one taisg

11 W3 had beer a spy he certainly would have continued (with the approra?

and coanivance of the authorities) os up the the sountains voere be could get.

useful informatico, instead of percitting hiasel! to be arrested just aíter

stepping across the border. "Rósulo" aggreed with 1/3 that the

---

## Page 30

probably does not want I/3 to beir his ("F0zuio5s") faction and have dose

everything possicie lo isolave Ils eros bia cornal social contacts. Fario

added that the only important fort in the hole airair sas that there vare

"certain elerents" anone the Curtenalen revolutinaries that night bellere the

LIPIG charzes and possibly do care to 1/3 sad or his dile. Bótulo urged i'3

"to be careful" and for that ressia di not encourare toe icea of à coniscata-

tion cita Carlos vega at tais tine. He continued tha: il, borever, 1/3 isisted

he wouli be plea to have it out rich Carlos lega to fird out sho had ses, dis

to provoke 1/3. Rowton agreed that littla or nothine could be accospilEbad

in pursuirg tois zatter.

1/3 contirued that rner he toid zénalo that he felt frustrateá and beipless

voiusionary, have courage and satience in ecairontine these problers. Le eon-

tinued that

ne hisself nored to castinue to see I/3 and be das sure that things

would work out. Ee stressed tuat ze and his ?astic: value tre friendship and

lojalty of laditiduals süch as I43 mereas the LIRING establishent is intereste?

only in groups and organizations sat can furtoer their eon interests.

5. GUIDANCE/INFURANTIC: Eiven to agent:

Portoa encouragea 1/3 to continue his efforts to find steady employsent siace

he was sost vulnerable to both the hIRiNG agents as well as faR in the netier

of his financial rescurces. I/3 told Rontos that he has already been, pronized

an appointent to sore teaching pesition by javier Espinosa, private secretary

to Yañez, the secretary of Educasion. I/3 commented that Espinosa is as neart

a "EOod proTessive" and has been very sympatcetic to his sincé his retara to

Mexico. I/3 also stated that he lasends to lock up feracieo iepeda in the hope

that the latter can place him soreshere in CHASiPo or arrangel a job rita ais

Chiapas nerspayer ("Rerovación").

donton also urged 1/3. to continue to elicit infornation fros "Róbulo" couser-

Ding dis faction of the PAR 3n1 as? knollesce he nigit bave concernine tce

Inderendent operations being plancad by FEnChai in Guaterala.

¡allace B. Porton

---

## Page 31

27 "arch, 1969|

1. Agent:

WIFING/3

2. Date & Site of tieeting: 1000, 27/3/69; Cal:i=o Beal Restaurant

3o text reetice:

Sase place and tine, ?/*/69.

4. Inforsation/reports Given by igent:

WRING/3 reported that unfortunately "Rosulo" (Vario dugosto MarDEl squilar)

had not reappeared since his iast reeting with his ( 17/2/63) and tear se

felt he could do nothing but wait cor his to initiate the recountact.

T.TRT:G/3 cortinued that on bis oua initiative de bad iro-rez

oy the l-FING

offices on 21 March, feelire that he sould not cortiaue to remain in iso-

lation despite the unfavorable rusors against air aparently originated by

that office. =e told Pontor that infortunately de liá not find anyone ol

Importance is the oifices at that tine, but vas tali oy the gatekeezer that

other wanted to see bin" ard that se should returs early the foilori reek.

LIAINE/3 CORTiS-Ed tO BONton tat instead of returning to the office za de-

cided to telepcore lIEll/d at his home. le did so en the soming of 25/3/69

but was told by a woman with a vexicon aceent (ocriously the maid)last neitber

LIRI:G/S nOr MIRE:G/2 das at cose. IIRIG/3 then left tis name and eared the

wozen to irforn either of then that he had called.

IIRING/3 continued that acout 1200 that saze day (25/3/69) his old riend

"Identity B

appeared unanrounced at tis appartzent. I/3 told Forton that

although it ias obvious that Iden B hai appeared in response to tre tele-

pore sessage that 1/3 had left for LIRIIG/9, Iden B did dot refer is it,

expiaining si=ol: that he had cropped ercund to see bon LIkIng/s and his wife

vere doing. Je did mentiones subsequently in tie scaversation that be was

noe living with LIHT:G/2 and iRTiG/, and LIRING/13 in their "very anple"

apartnent.

Iden B contizued that he hoped to readin in Mexico until jaly

1969 and that he was pleuri.g to sarry a vexican divorcée with three esildren

(boys) whos be had originally set many years 250 in a visit to texico city.

AkriG told ronton that foen B was surprisinnly cordial, regretzis the

fast that they had not seen eac: other for sore time

and encouragia? iIrIrG/3

to keep in touch in the future. Ee lavited :13 to Lindh on 29/3/69 but asked

him to telephone to confira, ie rave 1/3 the telephone, numper of illiG/e's

residence, apparently forfettier that I/3 already bad the sumber.

Iden B tien iold LIHtiG/3 not to be disturbed over the rumors circuliting

about bin, since he himsall had been subjected to nuch the same treatzent

---

## Page 32

2.

3eperal years previously i. Fantlial. Fe then stated that in arg case the

FairEr Chief dould not te retamin to lexico, ard that this should make I/3

happy. To console 1/3, Iden B continued that the cInG Chief was not fogalar

with the staif, since he vas considered to foral ani sacobish, and sozerbat

petty in his vindictiveness. Iden B

arreed vitn i/s trat the linInG tale? cad

dose such to bam Lintie/s's reputation, and probabir acted fros purely personal

Iotires (under tae infiuence of Carien jozada's fataer aid busbard).

Iden B jid noü teil 1/3 in dould replace the linzio drief. He consen on that

for sone time bac: he had vitharam fror poliigis and tried to zind his ov

business, earrine sis living or giving lectures on tis ova initiative.

Co the domestic siontion in zERiai, Iden'B coccorted that things vere tery

bad" both politis.ilr and ecorozically. Fo expleined teat FeRikai currenti? found

itsell in a squeeze play betten the big povers end xes genuineit leariul of

a Soviet Miron reprockerent, at their expense, of course. Oh the econcsis side

Iden B cornented that be nas nappy to be in tezico but added weekly toat tere

was every hope what thires sould zet better by 197C. then I/3 countereà tiat

everyone

nad been

sirging that tune for many yeers, Iden B did not defend his

position.

LIk iG/3 then told noito. that he took the occasion

to sention to iden B that

a certain Carlos Vera (akacarlos Enrique TippZ Garcia, had beer pestering sis

in the bope of finding soueone traveling to PeRlibli too would ve willire o

carry sone packages to sose of sis friends (ircludise the son of turcios). iner

I/3 asked Idea B

sether be would de willing to neet this Carlos Vegz before

consenting to carry over nis packages, Iden B replied; "Sí, cono 10. Cos sucho

gusto."

LIRTG/3 commented to Reston that be brought up the nese of Carlos VEla as a

siga of good laith both vis-avis the latter as nell as the jIalio office since

he felt it highly probabla tuat Vega was reporting regularly te the LIRiie cosple

either directly or indirectly and that in fact lega had possibly been sent to

check on LIRIuG/3 and his rife. LInIrG/3 continued that be plated to recou-

tact Jacobo Rodríguez Padilla and ask him to pass alone the messase to Carios

Vega that LIRl'iG/3 das anxiois to see him again since be felt thei he had se-

solved Vegn's "frobler."

L1Ri:G/3 also too norton toat he had expressed the desire to foen 3 to re

visit PERülidi sore tine in tae futura. Iden B replied toat he sculd do every-

thiug be could to expedite the visa, which he said he felt preseat no probien.

L1RING/3 also told Ronton that. IRliGa had received a letter fron her sotzer

asising ker to attent to obtain a 30-day visitor's visa for der to come to

Mexico on vacation. IIMi:G/3 told Rowton that he and IT:I:C/4 had already

---

## Page 33

-

3.

made formal application for use visa, altacio. they derc rot optimistic that

Gobernacion would grant it. cinti6/3 added diet he did not mention this deve-

lopment to

Iden B

, altaouen be night possibly mention it in passine

at his next chat. HIPI:s/3 corcented to Rostc. that he feit iIRId5/4's aother

might have sone interestiar rossin but could rot ve expected to tell bin and

• IIKING/4 anything stertlier. Me added that he bed appiled for the visa fore out

of courtesy that in earnest and actually hoped that the visa would not be

granted, sirice this would give bin ard lInliGh, a good pretext to nake another

trip to EZRUMEN for purely personal reasons.

allace B. Roston

---

## Page 34

8 April, 1969

SCHMALT BEPOET

1. Agent:

LIRING/3

2. Date & Site of reeting:

1CC0, 7/4/69; restaurant of Camino Real notel.

3. Text Meeting:

1000, 914/59; sase plnce.

4. Information, Reports Given by arent:

LIRING/3 reported that at long last *Rómulo"( Vario Aucesto lendez

Aguilar) bad reappaared at his apartsent, or the afternoon of 2 agril,

without prior novice, as usuel. ili2ai/3 told sorton that "Rómulo"

apologizes for nou having been abie o revisit lIRIIG/3 before that

date, and explained that he had been "out of toin". According to I3

"aómuLo- sla not gave any explanatics of his absence since mid-lebruary

and 1/3 felt he could not ast for such expianation. "Póculo" prosised

to keep in touch with HIATiG/3 by cropping in to bis apartment "rbesever

be could". LIRaiG/3 told Forton that he rade a discriet effort to ret

from "Rórulo" a telephone nudier or address througt ubica he could be

contacted.

IIXIG/3 also reported that de hed set with Iden B

twice during

Easter week, but as yet had been unble to fet into his residence, as he

had hoped. He stressed that his relationship wita Iden B

was iu-

proving steadily and he ielt this a good sign, i-asnuch as he felt certain

that

lden B

would not tare the initiativeos recontacting LIaIiS/3

without prior consultation kith 1zI 3/9 and LIRaiG/2.

IIRING/3 then told Roirton the LIn-.alt had received a very ressizistic

letter fro= a certsin Ecseuendie, e scle residirg in Brooklyn, lew lork,

who stated that LIRING/y's fether yas dring of cancer of the throat and

was unable to leave his hone. IIPl.el3 continued that he had just dis-

covered that LIRI:G/4 on her own leftlative had rushed to the U.s, con-

sulate and requested a visa. As she subsequently told LINING/3, 1I3:NG/4

was inforsed by a consular officinl that her case roula bave to be "in-.

vestigated carefully by CANT" and seat she was required to pay 125 pesos

for a teleçram to jashington, D.C. to expedite the case. LIRING/3 told

Roston that be felt LIRI:Gia's action bad been precipitous: and could cause

bis additional embarrassment uith the LIRING office.. He added that be did

not think a visa would be transed, bu: asked lonton to, do whatever he

could to rake certain that lInlnG/4's request was turned down. Ry con-

tioued that in view of this unexpected development, he felt it wise

---

## Page 35

2.

to recontect IlRliiG/9 and tell him about iakziu/4's appiication for the

visa. Rowton agreed that this woüld be the best course of action, egpeci-

ally since LiPI:G/3 had originally centioned LIkI:"/"'s desire to visit

her sick father and the problem this represented for him, when be first

talked to LIALiG/9 after ais retuan fron Guarenala.

LIRIC/3 t-le howton that be feit this would also constitute a good pre-

text to sound out LIRIiG/9 about bis persoral feelings toward LIRlNG/3

and his own situation in the lIRIl& Cffice. Rowton suarested that liRiie/3

take this occasion to sention casuall? that be was still in occasional

contact with the Guateralans and to five uPI.G/o the sanes

of "Rómulo"

and Carlos Veza, if I/9 asied for detzils.

*allace B Routon

- -

..

s oradeas

---

## Page 36

• 11 April, 1969;

COS-ACT' KEPLEC

1. Agent: IIRIN0/3

2. Date & Site of jeetizz:

3o text Meeting:

1000, 11/1/69; caniso deal restaurant.

Sane tire, piace, 1500, 94/4/53.

4. Information/ Reports Given by igent:

IIRIlG/3 reported that he received an unerrected sisit on 9/4/5,9

Iron Roselio suirre, brother of ierjes Iquirre, whos botk he and

LIBING/4 have known for many years (froz their work together in

PERUMER). IIRING/3 told Roiton that he kas surprised at the risit

lozada and ber busbara, Carlos Fersabal. Il3 explaines to Ro:ton

that bota Pogelio and derjes are employed in the Secretaría de

Educaión waero Teresa Lozada worked for seteril rears.

LIRIiG/3 continued to kowton that Rozello, without making any

reference to the Persabal fanily, asked IInIhG/3 to do him an

inportant favor. He bert on to state that. an IIR:4G/3 inew,

Identity C

, was currently living in ber bone

Town in FBRINEN( the same area that LIRTNG/4 cones from) and was

hoping to visit them ir lexico city in the near fuzure Rozello

continued that he honed that IIRI:G/3 could have a check fros a

Canadian bank and innisration documents band-carried to Iden C

so that she could pay for the ticiet and present the Mexican

visa locally in PERUNEN. LIRING/3 told Boaton that although he felt

& bit mystified at this request, he told Roselio Amirre that be

would do that he couid to find sobeone who vas planning à trip to

PBRUMEN in the near future.

LIRING/3 cortinued to Roston that the naze of his friend! Iden B

Immealately case to his alnd, ano se attempted to telephone

him at the apartnent of LIRING/9. He, horever, found that the tele-

phone was not in service, and felt that he had an excellent pretext

to visit the apartuent about 1500 on that sane day (11/4/69) ex-

plaining to

Iden B

(and/or LIRliE/2 or 19) toat he had to get

In touch urgently to pass on the request of ñosello aculpre. LIRIilG/3

agreed with norton that he could take this occasion to agk the sIliNg

office to attenpt to obtain infornation os the state of healts of the

---

## Page 37

•2.

father of LIkI: G/h through the linlid office in lew Yore Clty. IIdITC/3

agreed that there sas li. tle chance of this request being honored, but

It would serve to reveal his lack of any other channeis to LIRI3/4 's

lather and stress the lezitinacy of liRaiG/h's concern for the bealth

of her fatherf an application for a visa to visit him).

IIYIMS/3 then stated to fowton that he suspected the telephone o? the

LIRING/9 aparteent was tepped. Fe explained that generally when se had

called in the past, there as an urexplained interruption in the line

before the party could reply. He stressed to roiton that this as his

and that;

shes the ript anth an

recertly as 9/4/69 did not nake any comment about the telephone service

in the apartmert

LIRING/3 pRomised Rowton that then be visite: the apartuent: that siternnon

he would take as gocd a note as possible of tze lay-out and furnistings

and ascertain the identity of the said.

¿allace & Rowton

---

## Page 38

14-00000

21 Aprili, 1969

COLACE APOPT

A. Agent:

IIAING/3

B. Late

& Site of leetire:

1000, 21/4/69; Cemino Peal Restaurant.

c. liext leeting:

ons tine, place; 2514/59

D. Reports/Inforation Glien by irent:

LIRI.G/3 apolorized for not havine been aole to nake sbe last

scheduled mecting with zoiton, 1000 on 19/4/69. le expiained that

his friend, Iden B

, had tieruectedly arcoped in to see his

at that time and he felt it nore important to see hia again than to

nake the meeting ilth icaton (be subseouently left = accors.15

Monion's answering seryice).

IIRING/3 continued that be explained to

Iden B

the enoti-ral

strain that LInlLG/4 waz underroing as a result of the bad

neis con-.

cerning her father's health. He ther asked Iden B

to attenot to as-

certain the

true state of his health through the LIaIG Office in dew

York and gave Iden B tie name and telephone imber o. the

aunt of

LIRI:G/4 who appeared to be the best source.

Iden B

1, according

to IIRING/3 promised to send a message with the next luch and hoped

to have news for uInlid/3 within the rext ten days.

Accoraing tó LIFING/3,

Iden B

then suggested that LIRI:E/3

thius about moving to PERCYEN for a "lerethy stay, fareneul

indefiritely."

He explained that he felt he urderstucd LIRIG/3's pIcblems, toe i slug-

nies, the subtle persecution and the resultant incressinaly difficult

financial situation h? frund hirself in, and he felt'tsere was no real

solution in rexico. In TRYiN, borever, he could iscare much more easily

for his wife and caila, jiice nost of his busic finacial probleas sould

be solved. le added that be was sure that he suld find LIRIliG/3 sore

sort of work in the cultiral field as soon as he retured to BRUtEN and

then arrange an invitation. IIRI:ü/3 told Roiton that although he regarded

this proposition as encoirering ( since be das certair that Iden B

had prior appruval fros tbe LIKING Office), he took a satural and 105ical

approach in replying to Iden B

Se stated that he told Iden B ibat in

principle ne agreedbut he had to face the redities of the situation. 21=9t

he was not at all certain that he could convince his vice to make such a

move, and secord, he was not optisistie that Iden B colid arrange a good

position for hin i. fBlurch that dould pernit him to sork sericusly and,

of course, make enough ioney to neet his livize experses.

Iden! B

---

## Page 39

14-00000

replied that

he felt it quise possible to arrange sarataide for tIRINg/s

and for that reasca sa1 brouga. to the isea at this oint

Rowson told IIRliGi3, in reply to sis query. that suce a trip to PaRukE

bouls se interesti.g

to big only il LInING! was offered a position in

the cultural field with food acces. to ElaTa: intellestuals and goveru-

rest orricials. Iris arried, cossentino tat he a Iden D

ard such young rebelstell enouga to devery good cortect vita them, provided

he was given a reasonabl serious don. In any case he pronised to work or

WIRI19/4 in toe jope of persuadi, per to po alorg sita hip, voen and 1°

Iden B's

proposal materialized.

LIRI:G/3 coatinued thet Iden B

then citered to arrange en exposition

fOr LIRING/3 at

Iden F

in Cuernavaca, statinz toat he could

a= sa titsond dirfinniug viroign toe urector of the calleries (fenale) veo.

was a close friend oi his. Lips'el; accepted this agrarently geruine offer

and arranged to travel to Cuernarzca on tue norning o= 22/4/69 to talk t=a

matter over with the director of tre art calieries.

J.IRING/3 then reported to Roitor that "Réuio" had agair visited him at sis!

apartzent late

on tbe evaning of 19/4/69 ( laus anticizsting the neeting

for 1830 in front

of noolworth's for the folloring dar as originally plasted).

Accordi-E to LIRING/3, "Pózulo" (Fario Augosto lendez dullar) told his teat

he bed tezen

the liberty of conica that evarice to IlscuS/3"5 apartment since

he kaited to talk in private of "somethire teat LIRIIG/3 saulú do to hele

his friends". "Rémulo" then went ta to expain that ele of bis comrades vas

expected to arrive in fexico City "in the rear future" and rould need a sa

cure plaie to live, at leasto until te coula lind a place of his own. "Résulo!

stressed that this

persoz, rose lizatity ie binelf did not astet know, seala

- be traveling "clandestinely" ard scald not risk rentice a roos on his ori

until he had establisked hirself i= the parea. IIRIrG/3 replied that be, or

course, would do his best, out poisted out shat he hisself was sot in a cond

position to protect anzone. He fis:lir agreed that this person night be eble

to use his kitchen as teeporary litic quarters, enterica and leaving the

apartiest througbt the back(service,entrance. LIRI:G/3 cointed out to "Rózalo"

that the back door to the apartien bouse sas locked a= 1700 every day aná «

that therefore it iculd de necessar. ior the erson usia, that entrance to

retura to the apartuent for good every nirat before 1709. "Rómulo" as ap-

parentl; satisfied with this

offer af lInliG/s and poplised to let hin incr

when the person arrived la Mexico city.

*"Rozulo" then centioned to lIRI G's that Iden E

sas currently

in

the

---

## Page 40

14-00000

3.

PaRiki capital and that he hieself ("Paulo"; was ia sore or less recular

touer sith the sother o1 "3l Chino", 'wrow dira G/3 urderstocd Espe Yon

Sosa). "Rónulo" also nentioned in jagiur that he worre tor tre or toree

nours a day in the accounts office di Ovacionas and ales does scue part

time work at a golf club in terico city.

E. Information/Guidance Given to irset:

Rowton asted -IRI:G/3 to cortin. e to

FrES3

Iden B

"0r=0re =pecific

inforsation about his proposed assistance to lIanG/s in objaindie e job

in FBATNER, DID some indication sos to the extent of the mowledge and baci

ing of the lIFING office. Ronton iid not encourege LI-I::/3 to take such

= paspeda curiunody unori ne couid cet tore corcrete data frce Iden B.

Wito regard to "Eómulo's" shut request for assistance, Ferton stated that

he rould be ruch more interested in this developsont, dan and in lIRtuG/3

could get the identity os the comrade of "Résule" ween de das to prorida

a salebouse for. Rowton suggested toat illl al3 put this person up shen he

appeared for à seu days, long encure to perait Fo:ton to get

a look at bim

and identify bin. A determiration could then be tade as to the bes, course

of action for LIRING/3 with regard to this person. In regly to IJRIra/3's

query, Porton trought that it woüld be best to reinsure vital the ilpIlG

office regarding this matter by casually sentiozirs to

Iden B

teet

de was perforning this service for his fiR friescs. lIR::9/3|egreed.com-

menting toat he loped that he rould Los again be caught in the crossfire

befieen the LInG Office and the naticalist Laction el the par.

dallace 3. Zorton

---

## Page 41

25 horiz, 1569l

- :

To Agest: LIRIiG/3

2. Date i Site of jeetire:

1000, 2514/59; Jatáno Real Bestaurant.

3o Text leeting:

1006, 23/4/69; Bobbin Restaurant.

A. Repuris/inforestion Given by Areru:

LIRCNE/3 reported to Porton that de vent to cuernaraca early

or the coming of 22/4/59 alone, since

baccout

oi the trip aù the last rinute, saring le bad to rerain in rexico

City. 11az:3/3, however, tas able to tali to she tirector of tre

Art Gallery of

Iden F

hirself and arranged an ex-

position for 7 June, 1959.

1IkI G/3 continued to Rowton that when he recurned hose late that

saie rigit he found a icte from his wife intorina bi= thar she

had gore out to telepiose 10n5 distence and iculd not be baci until

late that rigat. then sie returned she inforzed him tzat she had re-

ceived a telecram infoming her that her father hai died

125 2635 55

the previous evening (21/4/69) and that she tad been attepting to

telepaore her nother in FBauMbli but had not teen able teleet througa.

IIRITG/3 continued that bis fatber-in-law was buried on 24/4/69 and

thet his wife was still in a state of depression ann grief, especially

since ste ned been

unable to see her father before his death or at-

tena the funeral.

LIRING/3 also reportea Faat at about 1030 or 23/4/59 a guateralan, =zad

abcut 25: poory dressed and sonerhat reseablira Carios lega, had ap

peared urancounced at his apartrent wita = saall diece o! vaser on

hick sere written II2I3G/3's nane end address. le irtroduced bizzell

viticut care simply as a "friend of the leda Earrios brothers fros

Guaterala City," end asked 1I?I!G/3 to put tia up for a lex days.

LIRING/3 sold Motion that he agreed after sore reluctance, suspecting

that this ras the person referred to by Mario Yendez (Régulo°), al -

though the roung Guatesalan did not mention "Résulo" y faze. lIfE: 5/2

told Routon that before promisine to rut the Cuatenalan up, he coz

mented to bin that alüscurh he hed a great deal of personal respec: for

the León Barrios brothers he was disappointed that neither they nor

their rotter had writter to him for the past several zonths, appare-tly

---

## Page 42

14-00000

cecause they believed the calunnies speead against zin by Carlos

Ferzesai,

• Accordira to =172:313, Bhe gour=

Gustemalan toid hin that tis trions buck in Curtenara City Costirres

to save COrliieuce

in 11r-:9/3, but thas to resprct the epirices os

others,and aná so alterative but to discontirus correspondence vita

I1PTi9/3,a5 least for a respectable teriod." De continued tast HIRa:g/3

should realize that their cozeniastion in Guatezaie City vas is no

position to ciest out variois and sundry charges sais azainst their

Iriends and set to let tire take care of mostd their problems or this

=etüre.

wero/3 told Poston that le finailr gave the unexpected house-quest a

=st ta aãããg on in une sUUs Ul una CaILa, MOvInE the letter to cis stodio.

Ee then assed the guest to renain as irconspicuous as possible, iricirg

his that he erected a nurer of children that aftercion for an art lezgon

in toe apartseat. Tbe Guatehatan prcaised to be out ce the apartzent during

tre day and to return late a night. I..I:G/3 told zorton that in fact he

did not reappear until about 2300 that night, and left before C7C0 the

Iclioring noming. ben he returned at about 2200 on the nigot of 24/4/5-

he inforned 1a 1G/3 that be would be leaving the apertient the next ecruire

early and would not have to return. He thanked IIRI13/3 profusely tee

next noring (2514/69) and left at about 0900 witcout telling LIRIS 3

vere he intêted to 50.

LIRTiG/3 conti-ied to Reston that at about 1930 on 23/4/69, when he returned

to bis aparteent, be fourd "Rómulo" (Mario lendez Aullar) in his livire

roos havins coifee üith his wife. LIPI:G/3 toos the occasión to teli Rórulo

about the user seted houseguest. According to LIRtie/? "Rósulo" appeared

genuirely surprised and asked for the identity and pasical description or

he could not liestify the cerson as a friend of his. Ee gpeculted that the

unannounced guest bad been sent to check on LIRI:3/3 and advised sin to

be cautious and as normal as possible in his routine shile the person re-

rain in the house. Se said that he did not exclude the possibility that

this verson bai been sent by the LIRISG office nto check on LIRIäG/3'3

private life". "Pónulo" then offerred IIRING/3 a revolver for his sell-

defease, but Lil1:G/3 turned it down, saying that he was aot vorried to

that extent. icsorilue, to LiZI G/3, "Agnulo" stated that he hisseir pre-

ferred to avoid resting the young Gustanalan sisce de could not identsly

h1D. He reassured IiRING/3 that dis orn courede nho might also be in seed

---

## Page 43

14-00000

3.

of a saferoch would not appear unannounced is such a earner, addare

chat to date be did oot bate any definite word on this purson's 2a1

in rexico City.

1I2I:G/3 told orton tat be expects "Romulc" to revisit hin et cis

hore sonetica during one late evenine or 25/4/69. He told Roston tzat

It occarred to bit that ze right invited

Iden B

to the apartzent

on the same night in the cope that he could witness a face-to-face zeeting

with -=baulo" and Iden B. He Eelt that toio acula sere to keep his sands

as clean as fissible in the eres of the LINiG office, since he ra= cortain

that Iden B

would report prosptly of his seetion nith "eéc-io."

Bartos agreed, feeling test it was important for 112-6/3 to bring '=

occasional retires with "Zérulo" fully to due atuention ofitino inti:a

office, on the of?-chance that they aiready did not now about thei, und

that Iden B

would be the best cannel for tais.

"allace & Ronton!

---

## Page 44

..

5:97,10591

CONTACT REELER -

T0 Agent: IIRI:S/3

2. Date li Site of leeting:

1000, 5/5/59; Z0bin Restaurant.

3. Next Meeting:

1000, 715859; same place.

4. Reports/infornation Given by iger.t:

LIPING/3 arounced vitt

Euperent pleasure tiat at Icar last the

cozo channel iüa toe ?:R had dees reopened. Fe stated that he

had just received a letter fres the elder of the tuc ieón Barrios

brothers (Miguel and Jués) indicatire that in his zind the long

period of "probation" was over that ard that closer contact could

letter saved 2f ipril, 1959 ir the iarduritire he steted he recog-

nixed as tbat of riguel/sarrios,

in shich the priver, soo

signed

the letter as "julio Antonio", inforced IIRIG/? that be bad just

been released fros prison ("gonatorio") and was pierning to leave

town until taires cool off cor hin. IIRING/3 told Rooton that he

understood the double-talk of the riter to neen that je needei

money (2.100) to travel to rexico there he hoped to visit IIRIZG/3.

Rowton's

photostat and tranzlation of the etter

is attached tere-

with.

The cavelope, postuarked Guatemala City, 215/69, is aiiressea to

LIRINE/4 (as previously raciested by LIPING/3) and bears the re-

turn adõress i. Antonio rediza, 24 Galle 1-65, zora 1, Guatemala,

and was sent srecial delivery. LIRI:G/3 told Roston tzat he did

not recognize the return address, ard assured that it,as well as

the sender's nase, dedina, as notional. Fe added that "fioleta"

was the code word for oper tional costact with anjore arriving

on bebalf of the ieón Barrios bretzers, and that doña luisa referred

to Marta, the nother of the león sarrics brotbers.

when Roxton agreed that WRliG/3 sbould send sose sorey, no more.

chat 1.000 pesos (@80) Kith a cover letter Iron m::0/4 (0s;

tensibly, but in his own henduriting, explai: ins in doutle-talki

that fortunatel, ke in doing fairly well financially and that

LIRING/s 1s non vorking in an art gallery and expects to inberit

money from her lither who recertly passed away. ul.,INS/3 promised

to have the cover letter ard ervelore ready woen he set vith Roxtion

on 7/5/69 80 this he could ingert the noney order. Il3 told Rowton

---

## Page 45

?.

that i felt it best to send the corey omier in the sace of Elsa,

tae eldest of the león Zarrios sisters, reture tron to the notber

(Farte) as recuested in she leuter. He ext sired that the last morey

order (-cually costified banr. check) in 213z'5 nane, sent by LIFIC/,

arrives safely and amperently as cached incat difficulty.

Rontor

suegeated that 11a 5/3 send the letier, re-istered vita raceipt requesten,

just to be sure that the leuter arrived at its destiration.

rikile tri

vu

¿allace B. Postor.

---

## Page 46

SECRET AiTAi

TENT 62 Hin9-37.136

Léxico do do a 24

sobrero de 1sto.

¿sUnto. Coniulir ¿s 200 altes 1U2

MICROFILMED

JUN 2 1469

à quien corresionda.

4P

DOC. MICRO. BER

PRESENTE:

Ke percito inforsar el resultado de la investigación en la direcci

ón anotada.

El día de hoy estuvízos de visita en el dejartazento i9 102 de las calles -

de Coahuila de la colonia Roca D. P.

En ese lugar viven la Señora INES 11520:

DE ELABEL, sa pad, una hija c-

no de 15 años de edad, una niña coso de 8 años, un hijo cono de 17 años y -

3 estudiertes que tienen de buespedes.

la persona que funge coJo jele de casa es sa sobrino de

1a. Sra. ITES de -

nombre 50353 CARLA FAIRiù que trabaja colo agente de ventas y por lo regi -

lar siencre anda viajando.

NES BAS201 DS FIrrEl, su familia y los queugeles que tienen son verica.-

ZAÑOS y tienen de rivir en ese dejarta-esto 3 años, tienen el teléfono "= -

64-69-340

la Sra. Lês y su farilia son nuy atertos y ajaales, sero cuando la 3ra. -

IlES se enoja es mucho nu] grosera.

Cuando estabaros platicando con Ella, se enojo con su bijo y 10 puso valua

BLiCO Y CCiCRiLO de lajaderías.

Cuando le preguntasos por su Isjoão, nos costesto categoricamente, "I i3 -

IREGU.TET POR ESE HIJO DE SU

•. NiD?3 , por lo

que ya no quiz1-

nos ahondar las preguntas.

La Sra. LES es sedio blarca cos un roco de saño en la cara, ojos negros, -

pelo neero lacio jintado, paris recta, boca regular, rentín oval, freste -

regulas, estatura cono de 1.68 ats. y de 65 a 7o kilos de

peso, viste de -

nw alt: 2

ES COPY.

HmmA - 37136

35Am874

201: 798301

---

## Page 47

:1000552

SECRET

1TT #2 H59-37136

negro a causa de la muerie de una berzana suja que hace 3 sesea rurió, --

La Sre. Ii55 tiene 50 aïda de edad, según su propio dicho.

La casa se cospone de sala cosedor, cocina, baño, 3 recámaras y cuarto de

planchado que trabien lo ceutan como recúrara, los mebles sea cuy sedes -

tos, no tieres Irágenes catolicas j solamente

es una de las paredes dei c=-

nedor haj in cuadro que regreie:ta un florero con anos claveles.

113:1

-10

K-23

SECRET

---

## Page 48

Gunterica, 28 12241, 1959

Dear LIRING-1:

I

an very happy

to be able to write to sou. Excuse De or not harles

been able to do so unbir con, out divas only last deer that I iss

able to leave tie sanatorian. ": deserture tree such a alèce was cuic

a relief. My bealta vas coctining ari i almost hoü a relapse. EveryO€

at core celebrated. My brother sends you ris bes..

My letter has tro purposes: first to excuse agself for not beige able

to set to pour sore; it's besasue, since i an still not recovered, -se

doctor has tolà se to recuperate in the countro, ard, to avoid problems

these days, l'- plannia: to jo to unale Tío's fern. In any case they'li

about the busizess here and are/liferested. That saould take place any

day now.

¡s other purpose in writing to you is to botter you for a favor. I stouid

tell you that

I save snoried 11z and she is now expectire a baby. (Finally

I vas able to follow pour aarice), jou that I ar leavine for the fare,

she will be left alone ni vito sare financial ciificulties. Siace jou

had invitea bour of us there, ere suis is not bossime, a dope toù sadi

be able to send her soretzias. = think see coula use about Q. 100 to va5y

good use. If sou could send it to toña luisa - she ard I rould be very

euch

mliged.

Everything else is going very bell. I as

as ever your friend,

/s/ Julio Antonio

---

## Page 49

QUEROA LIRING 4:

RECIEN lO SERDUA pASADa polE "OdaE

No SAlUDO DEAGO MUY MAL Y ESTiLE A pUNtO DE

VENER ¿NA CELSIDA, - M; CUENTO GUÉ. TRi LO CASA

CI.é

DE. TIESID: MI HERALADO TE ASDADIS SA_

LDES. - Mi

CUiTA TriNE DEiS ANTiNoSi El periFo

PEDIRTE DiSCUlPOS puES yO Ni VEy A pRiCR LEGAR

A to CaSO - Resulta desi coRre Fitura Estay oN

faco Mal, sil

RESTABLECIER DETER ME RECARiELEC

QUE. ME

TENER PREBLEMAS EN ESTOr DÍAS UNACiO E lA

PIRICA DE TO PARLO.- DE EDAS LINERAS VAN

" VEEDE D VERTE DE- PARTE DE VioLEIA,:

AQUÍ

LE PLATIQUE DEL NEGICIO y ESTRA MUY ITECESADRS

ESTO VA A SER ÉN ESTOS PLAS. - EL SEGINDO

MOTIVO DE MS CRETA ES PARA PENITE CUA MO

LESTIA.- TE CENE QUE ME CiE

QUE ElLA ESTÁ ESfiNÓRiNO

con lic y

KABy. PoR Fin fi

PORA. la FINCA SE QUEDA SElA Y CEN AlSUNAS

DIFICULTADES ECONÓMICÓS, - COMO TO GUERII GUE

660.80.5

JERONOS pOR ALLA Y ESTE

VE; SOpUCO tE MIDIDES DERiA A

ECENOMICA: - YO PIENSO GUE UUES GIUO

LE PUEDEN SERVIR ANCHO SE LOS PUEDES MAIDAR

O DONDE DONA LUISA, ELLA Y YO, TE ESTRRIDMOS

MUY AGRADECIDOS. - PriL lo

NE260T. TO0Ol ANZ

SE DESPIDE. "TU SUICO DE

---

## Page 50

IP.

SECRET

Attachsent #3 to

НИMA-37136

MICROFILMED

MIN 2 14E9

росміста Вла.

Identity Sheet

Identity A: Prancisco LARI

Identity B: 'Orlando SUARE cit sula?

Identity C: the wife of Jerjes *AGUIRRE

Identity D: Heverto pADILLA

Identity 8: Cesar FONTES (201 - 3-3518)

Identity F:

the Casino de la Selva

.e...

S

E C

B

B T

S att: 3

HmmA - 37136

CS COPY

201-798301

---

## Page 51

14-00001

10:

18T.

8:

ATE:

SEAKS: nand

#H/COG/OPS

1255

8 MAY 69

SECRii

BOLE RE CONTARIAT DIBBERE

1 по 1909и

110

I MATURENC

•26

WH8 3 me.

A/AN S/083, 01/04, E 2

(elansiticaron)

SECRET

08 20 062HA63

То Г. МЕХІСО СІТУ

TYPIC LIRING 4

REF: MEXICO CITY-0125 (IN 53298)

+-8ZACM

Diane an

(o830)

tolerance

CITE HECTOR D 'I 3 6

7

_spical

7

1. VIEW PBRUMEN APPARENT SUSPICIONS OF LIRING3,

PREFER ROWTON NOT LEVY ANY REQUIREMENTS ON LIRING-4 OR

OFFER ANY AID. HOWEVER, SBOULD OPPORTUNITY TO DEBRIEF

OR ELICIT DEVELOP AFTER TRIP, WOULD WELCOME SAME.

2. FILE 201-798301, 201-8160÷2.

END OF MESSAGE

5= "с4=::

JUN 3U its

WILLIAN V. BROS

C/WHD

3- 201-818812

ATURASINO OFFICER

A3

AB

PS

BX

DES JED

FI

Chale. m Saurli

CS COPY

COORDI

ATINO OFFICERI

SECRET

LEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

C/wH/1

2486798301

8 Мац69

АТЖЕНТІСАТМО

OFFICER

COT MI

---

## Page 52

DISPATCH

SICA I

Chief of Stattoo, Gasical: C13

Check, El virisica

Chics of Striles, Lonies Cair

= 7.

and rare sochie

SOmMO: MOB-26603, 27 February 1003

ren indise

Atincted too Labnescoas 13 a treaslation cia echort raceitel

•c: 23 Eebrandy Leccen Backendo COrTiLES ToSa (231-

crucial. cantcarlos

Comminist callo

15 Loadeo can tas tesa lin contact

with 202e

(20ª-T90032)

Th3 20=524

res cucratics ty

LINLUCK

i:: 505=5=189

2.

It M1? ba soter thai linliosis infcocation leads to conflen

carlies scaontino that 23124103 is connacted tith the 20z rather tran

130 I1D to iX02T3 10 20:1à c1e03r t0 balo

soco contreis ritt: the

lattes coconiraiica.

Me 112100'e record is incod in tart or

Coratis 20:r0 5?

{22a

the past, di is bolicrod tun his cossoats

ray is ci inicicoi to Acancescos.

Lattes too roosired to parside ong additicant triorcation

on comainea tilet bo sog bastlo

to corales.

FOE

willard C. CURTIS

Atinchsont:

1 translation of repari

Distribution:

FX18-36680

10 KareD' 1960

LUSHLATOR

5 Copy 201-315437

SECRET

201-798301

---

## Page 53

•c01: 8, k1'-26950

(Trangladen di cored leo 1l lama Carrier 10011186 Vola)

3.

trident,

10n3 2:2

Divinier Helleina

?.

noseport du the Catcale Citie in tries Cit:.

"as applyire

ier tie rersport,

CeRziE..

:: 1::0x21 62 10cd 45 troiCl to

jeneatis or botalt ef lis

16231221.

10:a:

nic doubts

Pe5.N

tearle cretar feelin

00: 1150 15

-Icar-time

••——

ton in apined ile

esse:

cxile,

iail. do Villa Decein or oricro ca Cera: PiTC

toad: tint there

(I: Is cily just

Fears

wife ari.soverc)

clal 're dat le

carand to

do 15 separatel let dis wife

Cue 1o etill in Canterile) and livne rid anchor corn in tiexico.

In any cront, COralan is

still a nonine of the iCt, and his

spont

rah:

canttr

i::

one

ccorsion

jail soonton oá lis formuriet actirigios.

on

he mr jailed curior the rarine ce

Fuentes, ani wady we Colonel berice velin dear ie as in porer.

livelin terion as a relitical astice,

bit tas returned

clandestirel: in esatcaalr eo severa: coctrions, only to hr expelled

fIOn

thirt

ccintr. arcin:

tile

"responsable" fore

in clares oi

tle Ecatcholon

comaniais living

in licrico..

that is the representative co the 107 in

isrico.

At

leasi the visible cerosonative.

Cich tille Tirior "rIGi GUTIER?ES

Garbin ms alive,

don in 105,

ponsible rositier.

his linazlons irs iconine an ero

cn

CUPIERREA

It 15 possible that rottis persevernice in secsing n

Gintenann

passport,

ini 1t tece lir neir

tre years in get it, is

Dochuse ce

•. desire

toge

to Cion on moon the Iron Carrin

coun-

tider.

crapain, it may be dra do nto to ie to leicaugla as

he

clalns.

le nives, tie inpronair. dirt lo reccites a solars iron

tlie

Is nothin note thiar a

---

## Page 54

4-00000

..

"Ti

applic:

tr.

ltrtaor4"6

1: веліві,

liar: 122:1

colori:

1006 cnd 2

cinsel"

cistirotévr

Scatures pre!

c^13

-issi-cherred.

(.0e0t)--

a ricenare

l'e ts rhout 5'7"

1:.11.

ail las t ricop.

RiS Rocki

Tein tiat roa nirt

..e

main to gorate.

Pare

Fare raven le Terreas fece Perore.

of Gonzalez,

The description I

0.

35r Frie

for riny

inta in "ettine his passport),

ttin

wt: antormation of inpor-

?÷ весері

ica cosic?.

datarail:

¡anne 121! sa? the iollowirei

"Gucer1l)e corfare is tot

tir resciocloras: line to lo, follora!

In Corterali.

cockel cut,

2n2 the only

1021l: (65. 19012111a

mistict it dcsoralize?

anti+s 50°

ino: tho rerclabioontr rorenoni soveral ycars.

Coriral

Cernities o: 1:0

shon

The

1t

"Invenes" tare rodere

in the icong violent revoly-

Kang of tiose

nos"

Tore trriera

1r: C.-..

fikat

"jove-

arponel mas) that the PGTI

mor: tre tere c.

beir. coapletely replicod

07 30U16 122-005.

morril tiir, the Coneral Corrittee

fcan.]

it acrossaro to include sere of t!s

wouth. Icaders in tie Centrnl

Corrittce.

chante in che

"ruernflls

lino".

l'oct ci the cronle pollini: icadors of the Party have

ine this cause.

Iäcer in

the

conversatir: Cortill inc. quite spitared ant sald;

cend teneRe and tonato per die dead do 500

Giatenala tho uant

in erder in socrgarita

the mucgrilla :

boninin tin Interlod nie Giutennia iod continue tle firht thie

I rofiso; io rlir ilon ny aid.

thing

1? con C5ar.

tiat

this ins

the cont npproach."

S5 CRAT

---

## Page 55

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATIOSI

SICRES

Giict of station, sexico citi

HMM

No. Chief, lester. lienispicte Livisien

* Cuief of Station, (uarcsaia City

SUSA LARZi/LIRINE-3 Operation

material it: Please soe taragraple 3.

RIFIREIOS

A.

10144-36254,

17 Jarusaty 1965

Ba lili- ¿7où, 25 January 1969

PROCESSIAG ACTION

MARTED FOR DADENIAS.

NO PLEXIC RESURRED

LOVET GIALEID DESK

1. It is suggested that liRliili-3 be shoun a pioto of Carlos Enrique LiFEz

GATTia (ZU- JAUS""), nio tidy ve lucilerilonie

ricie cue jusion

on 24 Lecesuer 1968.

Tie jicoto of iDiii has forwarded wiri isola- 3768, 30 January

stracied for rexico City alid ileadquarters is a juoto of Carlos Enrique

haps Arevado, wich say also be sion to Liklv-3 for possiule ider tification.

Liaison rejorted on 15 Februar; lios tiat LOPEl Arevaio travellou to lavana, via

texico, on 12 JanuaTy 1902 and 12 Moverber lyos.

The folloning biograpiic data on

LOPtI Arevalo bas talien frou his Passiurt Application, iatel ly Ucrocer 1965:

8. DPOB

12 July ljás; La conera, Giaterala

b. Father

Tiroteo LUPEZ

sit: Guatimala

c. totier

Nicolasa AREVALO

A: Guatenraia

d. Color of Ejes

Black

Atracisent: Heronità

Fioto

distrilution:

- 2-(/444-1/888 li/s 1 CY

h/u att:l

CROSS BARON 10

I3 C671

РАЗОИ SIRBOR АНО NUMBER

GASSRICADON

SECRET

MICROFiLMED

MAR 1 U 1909

DOC. MICRO. SES

FEB 27 1969.

CATE

24 february 1969.

N 201-798501

---

## Page 56

CONTINUATION OF

'DISPAICH

TASSIN RATEST

SECRLI

1SE4- 9803

=. Color of hair

Black

f. Colur of. Skin

Dio inisir

i.0:

b. liarital Status

Single

i. Occupation

FarvET®

j. Passport io.

105687

3. Motogradis of ¡ario jugusto -INDEZ Aguilar and tzrio itoniel ZUEl

Holina were fornaried to Station iexico Cit; ¡'efCIenCe b) VILi LIe TATUEST LiSY

ve shan to Lilies for jossiule iventification.

It hould ve interestin, to

Learn binether eitier of the alove is tie une see of de ircivical juan to

adiressees as javier LiTiaRAS.

ANy J. STRIVESS

токи

8-40

530

"• use menous corone.

SECRET

---

## Page 57

ATT

11667-9803

NOT SEMICE COS LICOTLE

• • «e-

Yu'att:!

COPIL

4G6N - 9803

Chief, cit Dicisie: 201-798301

---

## Page 58

DISPATCH

CUTERAT

SBEEET

FESCESSING ACTION

LIKE FOR POENAZ

TELD.

FEMA

Chiel Of Statlos, Herdoo CItT

tales of Stat1oa, Austerals C1ty

Coler, lestero headsphere DATiBiOn

CAS MOGE DADÉTINE

IRECT

ACTION MOUTES - KELTINES

ACTION HEQUIRED: SEe parETEra 2

RIPPERICE

: B9A-36114, 28 DeCEaDer 1968

1. Evadqurter's Illes contala the fOlloulag IMPoruation on a Humberto

GONZALES aNd BRiCENTO GONZALZI, VegA uho 18 probably Identical vita the

CORZALEZ, described by LuRISGA 1n reference.

8. In Segtember 1954 one FInDErtO GONZALEZ, In COmpery Ilth otheT

erdles, nas deported fros Guatemala tO Pa-ens. On l September thie

endle group artived in Panes on board an Argentine idlliary atroraft.

It ass further reparted that on l0 septender, thla sare group

departed POT Argentina via Gravagull, lisa, and Santiago, GONZALK?,

deseribed as a tuatesaias natlaml, utilized tale conduct pass $1252

o g12925, 141sh listed his oscupation as belay a railroed vorker.

D. In eArLy MAy 195T me FumbertO OOIZALEZ TEgs tAs reparted as

directed against is busteralan Coverment. GiZAlEZ, vas further

18ent1iled as as individual too has previoualy reten asylus 1s the

Argustine Embassy, had s boom Commist caciground, sod tas presently

Employe as & sales] ior the llouL casery in Guatenals alty.

(Sourse: BCG-965, 27 KEy 1957, ISCOSS0N/2 CrOS ESCOHSON/10)

Oa 25 AprIl 1959 one lumberto CONZAITZ Teza attended a necting!

at shich plans for lay Day celebrations vere discussed. this sane

repor'i corinised ise fleld Cowent that ODIZALEZ tas & sembEr ar

the Fat. (Source: EU4T-259, 26 Aprl 1959)

Distribution:

Orlg. end 1 - 003, Besdoo alty

2 - 008, Cunterala City

30 баливту 1969

CROSS REFERENCE ID

IS COPY

DESPATCH SELINA AND LUNBER

15011-17056

QULTUFICATION

BECRET

? & FEB ES.

HIS FLE ACTOR

:207-798301

CRIGINA"RE

COORDIRANG

OFFICE

, Оно Пико

10/22/3

(DA.

2e=S

DATE

до-1-69

OFFICER S MANI

OFFICI SYRISCR

c/E2

53

USE PRITICUS CONTAIN

BELASME

DATE

OFEET SEATIRE

3/2169 з

610s

DISPATCH

---

## Page 59

=

"CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LASS. FIZATION

SBCRET

(-308722140 90

F896-17056

do. Is May 198, cae BRiberto DOIZALBZ VeEs Iss reparted as belag a

seaber of the istallon lustenala. Dus group bad been recrudted

Haraguan Revolutonary sorenest, was a seaber ul the POT, and

sorted ss sales manager for the Analla de MICOL Cogary. Ihe eiddress

Pur this connery las reported 8a oth ATeNe aDI LUr st. Zone 1,

Castesala C1tJ. (556-1331, 22 May 1959, ISGZ1/1 ITOS BSGIX/1.5)

c. In late July 1960 one Humbr-to GONZIZ, vas reparted as being

a leftist who vas Inancing a group vales had prepared plans for

a COUp. (Source: ECQ-1766, 2 August 1950, ESDEM/1 STOE ESRBCISSS/3)

2. Besdquarters rould apprectate any additional Inforsation on COllZALEZ

that alett be developed by addresses.

Bustace D. MOOCK

400м

1001

530

USEPA

TOLS KOSTION.

LASSIFIATION

SECRBI.

---

## Page 60

WF9.

Frien

3P

DISPATCH

PEE UNG ACTION

SECRET

IAN: NE FOR DIDIXIS

Chief, WH Division

chies of station, Guatemala City Hel

Chief of Station, Mexico City f

PBRLEN, The LIRING 3 Operation

CO RECLINED - REFERRES

INS REENAG REQUIRIO

DUCT BIALF'E DESK

¿CAS AUGURE REDERING

Actior Requirad: FYI

Refrence

: E301A-36114, 27 December 1968

prepared by wallace B. RONTOY on the latest develogents of

Forwarded herewith as attachment Fl are eight reports

the LIRIJG-3 operation. . The nost important of these are

revieved believ

1: 38911-46

Har 1o aMENDEZ:

"HOmULO, " WnO laTEr deScIIDed nInSelI'as

appeared on the scene as the liaison

nan betwesh LIRING 3 and the Guatemalar Pad t

~ EumbertoX*GO:ZALEZ Vega, whom MENDEZ called

Gato," apparently made initial contait with LIRING 3

on his oun initiative.

MENDEZ said that "el Gato"

ras a "good element" but esphasized that he (MENDEZ)

would be the persor LIRING3 would deal mith on

FAR matters.

A copy of the sketch of MeNDEl. drawn

by LIRING} was shown by the Station to LIREBEL-2.

The latter, without any hesitation, identified it

a5 JavierX*CONTRERAS, leading FAR representative

1ir5-00}

154/3

Continued...

fre: cinciTientuith

(251-7983114

Attachnents:

1. Reports (8), h/»

26 Documents (7), u/s/

MICROF LIST

Distribution:

Or ig &

2 - C.NHD (w/atts - 1 copy each)

FEB € BE3

2 - Cos, Guaten la caty P/ate - 1 сору слобдс. мсто вая

5/ att: 1

Ww att il

1253 BASENT 10

CS COPT

DUPATCH SUADAL AND DOSABE

HMMA - 36184

GLATFPLATON

SECRET

элт.

=.

17 January 1969

K(201-798302

---

## Page 61

a darts

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SICEBT

RIDA - 36184

(201-8415523)

TEN 719 4441

5005

530

in lexico and a suspected PBRIMEi contact.

The

Station had the LIEMBRACE team cover ibe entrance

of the building where SEiDEl and other FAR members

have an apartment they use for clandestine meetings

with LIRISF3.

Despite the fact that the team

KnowS LIRIYG3 from previous surveillance and that

• a copy of lIRING-3's sketch

of Want was also

provided,

The

'station naturally plans io cover

and 1s also exploring, the possibility of determining

who rented the apartzest and fros shon.

It is of

sone

interest to note that HEiDEl, airhough he gave

LIRISG3 the agreed upon recognition signal, may

still not be the "Pavel" LIRING3 was told he would

LIRING 3 was shown a photograph of Oscar

Arturo aP2212 Ramirez (know.

to have

serriced a

letter drop in lexico City used by Vichelle Jeannette

FIRK before her death in Guatenala). LIBING 3

thougnt it Icoked like a poor print

of a photograph

of "Pavel" shown to hin while still incarcerated.

b. LIRING3 is apparently still suspicious

In the 55=3 =9

several letters

(see paragraph 2) froz menbers of

the Fak in Guatemala warning his that adverse rumors

(some of tien calling sin a KOFIRM agent) have been

circulated in that country by Carlos PERZAbaL jarcue.

Knoring that PERZABAL's father-in-lax is a close

friend of Chief, LIRING, LIRING3 sourced ¿he rumors

to the LIBIG headman.

He first took up the matter

of the accusations nade against hin with LIRISG9.

The latter said there was nothing to this, but,

and

there was a but, LIPING? roninded LIRING, that

in

the past he

had been conrected "with a person of

mysterious and

suspicious affiliations," a clear

reference to RONTON, LIRISG3's Creek friend:

LIRISG 3 insisted he wanted to discuss the matter

of the allegations sade against his directly with

Chief, LISING, LIRING9 prosised to nake an appoint-

ment

for

him.

This appointsent, hoverer, never

materialized. That Chiel, LIRING Day have spread

the allegations nade.

report dated 31 Decerber) :

LIRISG3 also took up

the natter of the PERZABAL denunciations with MENDEZ,

who told hin that the FAP. had paid no attention to

them and eres accompanied LIRING3 LO PERZABAL'S

house. LIRISG3, horerer, nade the mistake of

giving his name when asked tho was calling.

result,

as could be expected, was that PERZABAL was

"not in."

MENDEZ agreed to accompany LIRING-3 to

LIF.ING to talk to its Chief, but be warned LIRING 3

not to make accusations sithout proof.

Incidentally, does not appear to be pro-PBRuMEN.

This is interesting in view of the fact that

CONTRERAS, with whon he may. be identical, is a

• suspected contact of the PBRUleers.

..

So far, it does not

seen that the FAR has

• been greatly disturbed by the accusations made

against LIRISG3.

'In fact,

MENDEZ and the two other

FAR seabers LIRISG3 set on 1 January bare urged

LIRINGS to Join then in the hills of

Guatenala,

where guerrilla warfare, they said, sill soon be

ES COPY.

USE PREL+SUS LOTTIOTO.

L:s511:09

SECRET

JESTIALIS

bal set

2 of|3

---

## Page 62

CONTINUATICA OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

DISPATER SPEZDI AND POUNDIN

НИША - 36184

intensified.

They did not hide that their purpose

was to

broadcast LIRING3's hame and the fact that

a dezical had joined their fight. This was apparently

to appeal to the Mexican left and gain their support.

While LIRIXG3 has declared himsel! ready to go back

to Cuatenala (if this was what RONZO" wanted him to

d0), he did sot need POrTO" to decide that broad-

casting his name from the jungles of Guatenala was

not a thing he wanted anyone to do. At Station.

directive, LIRIVG3 pointed out that after his

recent inprisonment he had to take care of his wife

before doing any more for the cause.

The best way

to do this sas to take LIRISG4 to

PERUMEN and leave

her wiih relatives.

This led LIRING3 to ask what,

if aything, he could do for the fAR in lexico.

So far, however, his FAR friends have not risen to

the bait.

to flies contes a

Forwarded under separate cover as attachment #2 are

A copy of

a letter from Oscar Moises

A translation and a copy of a letter, dated

Deceaber 1968, frow farta/*BARRIOS.

SEX:F.

c.

Translations.and copies of letters from

Marta BARRIOS

to LIRING3 and LIRIIG4 dated

29 Deceaber and from "Violeta" date ta Movember .,

Copies of two letters and two postcards

received by LIRING-3 from Rafāel and Rígoberto

X*ARGEETA Alvarado dated 10 December (see RONTON' s

¡ repart of 19 December).

A copy of the letter sent by LIRING3 to

carlos pal counts partie to letter oxican

and Spanish Communist Parties. This letter is

dated 25 Decenber.

A copy of an article written by LIRING-3

and published in a lexican magazine.

The date,

number, and name of the magazine are marked on

сору.

10204

g. A copy of the note written by's

*RODRIGUEZ Padilla (a longtime member of the'

Guatemalan Communist Party living in Mexico)

introducing Carlos/*LOPEZ (who was an important

FAR leader in Guatemala until he care to sexico in

late 1968).

A copy of an article which appeared; in a

Chiapas newspaper announcing LIRING-3's release.

Dayand At

for Willard C. CURTIS

tras

530

ISEPRRNDISEDTOR

CLASSIFICA-CA

SECRET

AGE RUS

3 of 3

---

## Page 63

HMDA-3685

19 December, 1968

13P

1. LIRING/3 gave Roston two letters dated 10 Decerber, 1968, ITOI

Rafael Argueta A. and Rigoberto Argueta A. (Alvarado) in ibich

forcer states be vorsing in Chiquinula and jets bome only every

IIfteen days. Lerner jatter stetes anong profuse greetings and

best dishes that Juán José y figuel finánxiaos; tienes un

aão para hocerle fuerte al destino" which I/3 isterprets to sean

tbat Leós Barrios brothers intend resune activity on beball paR

as soOn as they released.

¿ ¿inurvis voia sorton

GOat

ne nues one of Dosa brothers vil

coLe to Mexico after release

and asked kowton whether be could

deternine probabil date of release so that he could be prepared

receive then: LIrarG/3 will reply to letters icking hopinz that

"los leones" will core to visit him when they leave their cage.

201-798301

...

!

MIGROFILMED

FEB 6 1363

MICRO BER

, to 508 42-286-23

Ww att: 1

HOMA - 36184

---

## Page 64

14-00000

23 December, 1968

subject:

LIRIKG/3 Report of Contact by "Pavel" of ?A8.

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at 1000 on 23/12/68 at tne restaurant

in the Camino Real Hotel that at long last the FAR coutact promised by

the León Barrios brothers had appeared. LIFiiG/3 told Porton that at about

1900 on 19 decenber a Guateralan came to his apartment and intooduced

hinself as "a friend of Vioieta." I/3 irvited him in but asked bin not to

discuss anythirg sensitive in the presence of bis wife. Alter about ten

minutes of chit chat in the spartient, 1/3 and the Guatemalan, who gave

bis nane siply as "Rómulo", went to a nearby restaurast to tali privately.

2. Accoräing to LIRIIG/3, the Guatenalan stated that he had been ordered

by FAR to maintain contact with 1/3. When queried by Il3 regarding the

Humberto González Vega whos be had net pravinaly: "Dimple" exploitea,

"Oh, you mean 'El Gato' - he's a good element, but he dill not bein your

PAR contact. I have been entrusted with that nission." "Rómulo" also stased

that be kney Francisco Lara well and had orsed with biz in Guatenala city

some time ago until lara was arrested. "Rónuio" added that unfortunately

Iara's nother had betraged him to the police and he barely escaped arrest

at that tine. "Romulo" confired that Lara had been under a cloud as car

as his superiors vere concerned and baù mase the 1il-leted trig

in order to attempt to clear binsell of charges against bin.

3. When LIRING/3 told "Rómulo" that he had been in touch with the IRIlG

office since his return, the latter exclained, "But ibai have the ulriso

people to do with us?" Tais gave I/3 the definite impression that "Rómulo"

binself was not in touch with & PERUMEN representative 11 Mexico City, and,

In any case, did not like the iIRING establishent.

4. He then asked I/3 to five him a sunmary report of the arrest and detention.

I/3 told Rowton that he balked at this at first, protesting to "Rómalo" that

he had alresdy given the details to the León 3arrios brcthere and "Cebollito"

who he was sure had passed on the report to the FAR in guatemala. "ben

"Rómulo" explained that be would appreciate en oral report on the spot since

he was not fully informed because of communications probleus, LIRIrG/3 told

Rowton that be went over the whole episode for "Rómulo's" benefit. "Rómuio"

then asked to see LIRIFG/3 again at 1100 on 21 December to continue their

discussion. He prorisad tó seet 1/3 on the street in front of his apartnert

house at the aprolnted tine:

5. LIRING/3 continued to Bowton that much to his surprise and indignation

he received a letter on the following day (20/12/68) fron Martb

the mother

---

## Page 65

14-00000

of the lebn Barrios brothers, in wbich, among other things, she stated that

"the nan on the bicycle", which I/3 explained to korton seant Carlos

Persabal

bed written a letter cortalaing grave charzes

against LIRI'G/3. The letter, which I/3 read aloud to Rexton, vent an to

assure Il3 that these charges were not believed but constituted a source

of annoyance to the writer's friends.

6. LIRING/3 continued to Rowton that be felt so indigrant and shocked at

this unpleasant development that he decided to see the Chief LIKIliG and

have it at with bin. L/3 explained that since the Chief jIRING is of very

friendly terms with the father-in-law of Persabas be might be aware of the

letter and even possibly encourgaged Fersabal to write it. L/3 told Borton

that be then got in touch with LIMlNG/2 by telephone andimade a date to meet

DIm at the LIKliG establistient at 0930 on 21/12/62. "hen he arrived at the

gate at that time de was told that IIRING/2 baà not jet arriveed. ifter a wai!

of some twenty minutes, LIRIG/2 appeared but asked LIPING,3 to wait a little

longer since he was very busy. After another annoylag wait, LIRING/9 appeared

instead of üIRING/2 and talked with IIzisG/3 on the patio. LIRING/3 expiained

that he wanted urgently to talk with the Chlef LIRING slice sonething bad

come up with regard to Persebal. He reinded LIRTiG/S that he originell, had

exppressed a desire to have a face-to-face confrontation with Fersabal in

tbe LInING office so that he could preseut his report on the arrest in sis

presence. LIRIiG/9, accordics to IIRTiG/3, brushed this off again with the

comment, "But as I told you before, you're naking a nountain of a colebill.

Jou're exasgerating the whole business."

7. LIRING/3 told horton that be then took out Martha's letter and insisted

that LIRING/9 read it. The latter expressed smazerent at the revelation of

Persabal's action but did not agree with LIRIliG/3 that the Chief LIRIüG

would be able to shed ligat on it. LIRNG/3 then told LIRING/9 that be did

not like the gaves that everyce seemed to be playing with him, and asted

WIRING/9 point bank what it was thet rotivated his to ask for a writter

report of the arrist and, after 1/3 cosplied with the request, to drag bis

foot. Il3 continued that he felt he had been frank with the WRING office,

whereas on the otber hand they were not bonest with him in telling him bat

they thought of him. Id then assured Iw3 of his confidence inhim and adued

that in the past certain persons, including Hugo, the assistant to LIRIiG/11,

had felt tbatLIRiNG/3 bad been connected with a person of mysterious and

suspicious affiliations.: L/3, understarding this to be a clear 'allusion to

Rowton, aduitted to having known this person in the past

and having had

CS C9.1.

---

## Page 66

3.

•a lex business transac-ions with hin, including the sale of a number of

his paintings, but insisted with sore aprojance that this had fot bearing

on his political activity. HIRIiG/9 arreed and adied that it tas really a

thing of the past that should not bother iial:G/3. He promised to make an

appointment for IIRIiG/3 to see the daief LIRING soletime the following week.

8. IIRInG/3 continued that whea se met with "Rómulo" later that mornirg he

also showed the letter fros Martze to his. iccording to I/3, "Rómulo" became

indignant and succested that they talk to Fergabal together to get to the

botton of the ratter. 1/3 ard "Pézulo" tea took a taxi to the residence of

versabal in the hope of finding ain in at she time. when W3; Bowever, rang

the outside bell he was told bye vonan (ino he susrects nixt vas either

Persabal's wife or sister-in-law) that iersacal was not at bose. I/3 noted

the woran's astonishrent in ser icue ol voice wuen se guated es name an led

request. "Rómulo" who vas present later comented taat 1/3 should hot bave

given his nane sirce it was obvious that bess Fersatal was at bone but did

not want to see LIPING/3.

9. According to I/3, "Rómulo" at the secord meeting stated that "several"

Iriends of his were plannin, to return to Guatemala to continue their work

for the PAR and that he hoped that IIRING/? right be able to telp in this

nission. "Rómulo" did sot specify what xini of assistance he!.

expected from

LIRI:G/3 cut promised to give cia details dben the time care for action in

this matter. He promised to see L/3 again at 1600 on 24 December, 1968.

10. LIkIiG/, told Rowton that he planned to insist on seeing the Chief LINliG

IN THE HOPE Of determining his reaction to the charges by Persabal in view

'of the Chief's friendship with toe in-laws of Fersabal.

allace B Rowton

---

## Page 67

14-00000

+•---

i Mista

26 Decezber, 1968

CCKTACT REPORT

1. Agent:

LIRING/3

2. Date and Site of Meetine:

3. Next Meeting:

4. Reports/Information Passed by igert:

1100, 26/12/69; Canino Real Restaurant.

1100, 28/12/63;

a) Contast of Carlos Lóvez: 1/3 reported that about 1430 ca 24 December

as he and his iife arrived at their apartment, they found a"chaparite

who Introduced binseil as Carlos López, a Guatemalan friend of

Jacobo Hodrizuez (Padilla), and gave L/3 a note of introduction from

that ferson. I/3 fave loston the orfeinol lotten, bick in auvaineù

herewith. L/3 told Roston that lópez stated that he was anxious to

send various items, including medicines, to IBRUHEN, and appealed to

I/3 since be "understood" that I/3 and his wife had contacts tarougl

wbico be could send the items. Lóper, according to 1/3 appeared Every

interested to be reassured that 1/3 really did nave good contacts

with the LIRIlE estabiiscent. when L/3 assured him trât be did see

LIRING representatives, Iópez want ou to rereal that he was a friend

of Carlos Perzabal and that he was fully informed corcering the

recent "tragic situation" of both Persabal and LIRIliG/3. This bomb

sbell shock 1/3 badly and he felt obliged to launch into a distribe

against Perzabal, *ben López commented that "naturally de have to

take Ferzabal's word agzinst yours, since be box bim better," I/3

told Rowton that be demanded an explanation of who the "we" were.

Lopez simply replied that it meant"luortant" persons in Guatemala

and Mexico. He added that, "as you know", Persabal was known even to

César Mortes. L/3 retorted, "But Montes has been stripped of bis

authority,as you should knor." This led 113 to the counterclaim that

he also had good friends in Guatemala and Mexico who could testify on

bis behal!.

WIRING/3 told Roston that he then showed Lopez a photostatic copy

of the attached letter which he had written to berzabal demanding

an explanation of the calumnies he vas known to be spreading against

him, and which he/had?alresdy sent to the CP Mexico and. Spain. He

asked lopez to keep the copy and teil his good friend terzabal where

he got it and under what circunstances.

LIRILG!3 continued to Rowton that be had to cut short the rather

heated exchange with Lopez since he had a date at 1600/ that sane

day with "Rómulo" outside bis apartment bouse.

---

## Page 68

2.

b) Cosuact with "Rozulo": IIkING/3 told Fotten that

he again sao

Róaulo, the FAR liaison, outside his aparteent bouse at about 1610

or. 2u Denember, le pressiazzed. In view of that had transpired a

tas short time earlier tbat afternoon, he told Rómulo about tbe

corgents made by Carlos Ispez. Rómulo, according to 1/3, did not

indicate that he kned iopez at all, but agreed vito I/3 tbat tse

accusations of Perzabal must be net bead-on. He suggested toe 10l-

lowing course of action: 1/3 should wait for the reply fron tarta

(nother of León Barrios brothers)

as to the exact cheries tade by

Perzabal before taring up the patter with the Chief IIRIiG. E

tended to agree wits 1/3 that the LIRING establishment night zave

inspired Perzaval's letter, but felt it would be better is 1/3

had a statement fron Marta beicre accusing the PBRuMarers of sad

arrange a confrontation with ferzabal in the presence of teree

"Important FAR officials 1n Mexiso", including a certain Jul'o2

also known as "Buda". Rómulo felt that Buda could lure Perzabal to

a private meeting sione

the latter tear alredy bad interviered

bin sore time ago aná would be anxious to see himlagain. Tais ¡ould

provide a good pretext for a conirontation between Perzabal a=d

IINING/3 to clear up the woole matter.

C) Provosed Meetiug with IlMiG Chief: LIN *G/3 told Roxton that be

felt it essential to see the lIkING Chief ca the dorring of 27 Dec

even if he does not receive a reply fres Marta by that time. re

explained that he felt he could get some sort of statement fro the

MIRING Chief, either affirring or denyiro his knowledge of the

Perzabal letter so that he could use this in a possible neeti=s vith

the latter in the presence of fómulo and his colleagues. He said

that he felt this important in view of a rossible invitation so

PBRUMEN that he miybt receive rosentarily.

5. Informatión/Guidance Given to igeat: Roxton cautioned I/3 against juping

the fun in accusirg the illiïgs of inspiring the Ferabal letzer,

po inting out that 1t could just as eas1l5 and logically hase some

from such Guatenalan exiles as lavarette, Capuano, or even perscas

of the César Montes group, who aro expected to be close to the

WIRINGs and the CPM as dell as sossibly thel PTG

Roston

C3 8021.

---

## Page 69

30 DeceRber, 1968

Subject:

WIRUiS/3 Identifiration of "Rómulo" Reported FAR lisaisor.

1. It 1100 sa 28 DecenDer, 1959, IIRING/3 reported to pautor at the

Canino Zeal restaurant that be bad again set briefly dith "éulo"

in front o! bis (L/3's) apartnent bouse about 1500 on 27/12/68. On

this oscasios "Rózulo" identified hisself as Mario Mendez and prozised

to give LIRING/3 a telephone at vaica be coild be contacted in the fü

2. Hito regard to the Perzabal accusations, "Rómulo" again cautioned

HIRI:G/3 agsinst jumpiig the gur with the Chief of lIntiG (i.e. accuai:z

him of having inspired the charges), since if the lInTiC Chief called

his bluff, I13 boulá bare no prcoi. "Rómulo" reconended that 1/3 wait

until ke received a reply Iron tarta ziving details of the accusatiors

befora proceealng lurther. De quieù dnai ai dund tils to 25d big aalloseres

would gladis coniront Persabal and cleer up the matter.

3. LIRIXG/3 described "Rosulo" as a Guatenalan of about 28 years of age,

5'5, 125 15s, sraigat black thinning hair, small eyes, clipped noustacie.

W3 aided that "Rómulo" frequently squints his ejes, eitner from a cervous

habit, or scue paysical defect. LIRING/3 drew Rowton a rough sketch of

"Rónulo" as he recallad bin froa the three brief meetiros he as had rita

him to date.

4. LIKING/3 also gave Rowion the original of the letter cros harta darki

postmarked 18 Decesber, 1968, I= daich mention nas rade of the Perzabal

charges. I3 reminded Ronton that Perzabal is referred to in the letter

as "el hosore de la kicicleta"s and that the lebn Barrios brothers (sous

of Marta) as "los yatojos."

5. IIRINS/3 also save Rowton the original letter of trixts Oscar Moisés

Boldán spinoza dated 27 Hovenber, 1968, which LI&I:G/3 had received os

1 Decenter, 1968. Ibe envelofe bears the sane return acdress as that of

7 November, 1968. Roldán encloses the negative of a snapshot of hinsell

as a "recuerdo." The letter costains general greetiags and a plea for

whatever help I/3 can manage to five ¿oldán.

6. LIRINGÍ3 asked kowton's approvai to send 500 pesos to Marta (via ber

sister) to encoursze her to continue writing bin and keeping bin inforaad

of shat derelops, especially if and rben her sons ara released. Ronton

agreed but stressed that 1l3 should explain that be had managed to bare

tbis extra noney as a result of ais recent exposition and to regret that

he could not send core.

WAfonton

sallace 3 Roston

---

## Page 70

Milano Mendes (PAVEL?)

25-37 ain

1.68

los cha,

Corti

Pano

---

## Page 71

31 Dicerter, 1958:

Subject: LIRTHs/3 Feport ol Mestice, with ILD Meatere in Mexico City.

1. LINING/3 reported to Roton at the Robin Restauraut at 1700 on 30/12/68

that when he returred to his apartment at acout 1206 on 28/12/68 be

round Mario fiendez (uka "Bómulo") vaiting ir the coscany of another PaE

vewber, whos l'3 descrised as "ery Pat" aged about 25 with

a droppire

noustache. W3 told Roston that since he did not disa to involve his di?e

Is conversation with these persoas, invited them ourside to a nearby res-

taurant.

[2. According to LIRING/3 Kario lendes and his friend told his that PLR

had decided fizally to vitadraw ail its forces fron tre cities and to

virtual impossibility of effective action in the urban areas of Gustezaia.

They stated that they and a number of their cobrades in lexico dere pianning

¡to retura to Guatemala ead join she FAR forces in the nountains. They tien

invited LIxIHiG/3 to accoupany then on their return trip, feeling that it

that way he could contribute nore to the struggle. In reply to I/3's queries

they did not specify hos Il3 was to survive another trip and in fact be

of any use to then in the sountains. They sirpiy sais that they felt it

rould be uselal to give vide publicity to I/3's preseace in the nountaias,

once he reached that area. I/3 told forton that he reacted to this sozerbat

startlirg proposal is es logical a vey as possible, saying that be roule

have it five it careful thought, inassuch as it raised a number of very

serious problens witb kin and bis fazily. Kario lendez acd ais friend con-

cluded with a rousing cheer for the "real revolutionaries" tho put asile

all thoughts of personal safety and cosfort and rusa into the battle. mes

I/3 fointed out that they taemselves after all had vitadram fron the ac-ion

tudy seplied that precisely for that reamos they intended to retura and

do their share for the cause.

3. HIRIiG/3 also reported that he and his vile spent the 29th of Deceaber

with Orlando Suarez in Cuernavaca and had luach with his and jorge Godoy.

Suarez renarsed privately to IW3 that he had visited the LIkniG offices ca

24-25 Decenber and was "iot pleased" vitt colzents be bad beará concoralas

WIRING/3. Ze recommended that 1/3 see the Chief LIn it"as spon as possiole"

to put the record straighs conceraine the circunstauces surrounding bis

arrest and especially his subsequert release. Suarez intimated that the

Chief "nING apparently arored tbe version siven ty Perzabal, vith whose

In-laws be was on very close personal terms. ¿IRiNG/3 told Routon that be

planned to try agoin to reet privately with tse Chief Jillo on the norcine

Of 31 December, 1958.

85?-

---

## Page 72

14-010000

4. In repig to roston's questions concertira the ideatity of the Ichlowing

nanes that appear in the letiers to hin iron Marta barrios de Leon, LIxlüG/3

rade the following clarifications:

1) "Los cabchitos" and "los patoios" refer to juan and Miguel Lesn

2) Bita' is the true ease of the eldeat león darros sister (apparent

age 25).

3)

"Le negra" is a lAdn barrios sis-er aged abost 94.

4) "Ia chiquita" is a six-year-old sister of tbe leós Barrios brothers.

5) "Pelissa" is the novia of Juár issé leós Earrios.

6) "Turi" is a child, probaoly of raria Pless, van is a close filend

end possibly relative of the leda larrios Larily.

i, "it gorata" and "Cari" wese idestity 1/3 sever learned are both

active members of EAR uho frequestly visited the león Barrios

brothers and acted as lil couriers.

5. LIRING/3 told norton that as regards the fraternas proposed revisit to

Guatemala, he was frepared to iiscuss his nith sorton and would be tilling

to undertake the hazardous sission, "If tzere were no other altornative",

but that in any case careful pians would bate to be worked out especially

'with regard to conruuications, 11 Zorteh coped to profit by Il3's rezewed

LIvolvement with FAR in Guatenala.

Vallate $ Ecarton

---

## Page 73

1 vanuary, 1969

Subject: LIaInG/3 Heport of Meeting at PAl Safekouse.

1. At. 2100 on 1/1/69 ot the Robin Restaurast LIni. 6/3 reported to Roston

tnat he wet, as requested by "Rómulo", to Calle Coabuila 221 (across

fros roolwortzs neer the corner of Ingurgertes Sur) and found "Rómulo"

1s apartment 12 ir the company of tro oüber persons, previously unkrova

to üIRING/3. Both appeared younger than "Résulo" and one could easily be

bia brother because oi she physical resenbisnce. The other, apparent age

25, light stioned, too was introduced simply as an icuadoriar, had a g00d

Guatesalan accent, and revealed in his resaris an excellent baowledge of

Guatesala. The Ecuadorian, who had the nost pleasant personality of the

three, remarked during the conversation that de bad been imprisoned 1n

the old penitentiary in Guatenala City and subsequently "thrown" over the

vives uu odiracor.

2. WaING/3 told norton that the saall apartient contained nothing that he

could see but a table and several cheirs and was obviously a safenouse

rather than a residence. "Rónulo" later co-firued tois shen he toid I/3

that they would have to reet there in the luture only by appointment since

they did not live there but came only fror tire to time to talk. is a re-

sult, LIRTiG/3 wade a date with them for 15C0 on Friday, 3/1/69, at wick

time he, I/3, would come to the apertrent. "Rórulo" pronised to wait for bim

at the entrance to the apartment buildice so that 1/3 would not have to

ring the bell and wait outside the door uarecessarily.

3. During the friendly discussin that ensued in the apartrent, 1/3 took

the line previcusly agreed on nith Rowton with apparent success. The young

Ecuadorien snored his approval by nodding his head several tines, when Iß

outlines bis reasons for not accepting at cace the proposal to retura to

Guetenala. "Rozulo" was less sympathetic, ard when I/3 stated that be ielt

it recessary in any case to travel first to FBAUMEN to get his wife settiled

"aónuio" shrubied his shoulders,rezarking, "Jut can't she leet by hersels."

IV3 then offerred to be of any service shile in IBRilal, but did not re-

ceive any positive reaction. "Rósuio" responded simply vith a "Yes, we'll

see.- I/3 made sure to drop the statement that he was planniny as a matter

of fact to see LIRIiG/9 the followiag moraine to talk abogt the trip which

1/9 binself had already volurtee.ed to arrange.

4. inen the subject of ferabal's calumnies against W3 case up toward the

end o! the conversation, "Rimulo" told W3: "Ios't worry ayout that any sore.

A quatenalan, room you don't kaor, rill take aare of that matter "de una vez

W3 told forton be felt tais remari das too full of forebading for him to

aok for detalls jo arzeed to coge again to tie apartst at 1600 0a 3/1/69-

---

## Page 74

1 January, 1958

Subject: LIRING/3 Report of Address of lario Merdez, ala "Rósulo".

1. LIRING/3 reported'

to Rowton at 1000 en 1/1/69 at the Robin Zestzurant

that te had not succeeded in seeing the Chief LInING as be had bojec the

previous worning since the latter did not appear at his office bi 10c0,

when LIaIlG/3 had to leave to take the contact wita "¿bulo" at tis apart-

sent. IINING/3 costinued to orton thet woen be arrived at his apartment

about 1015 be found a note tros "Pénulo" asking bin to cose to the follow-

Ing adaress so betreen 1130-1200 the following day (1 january, 1959):

Calle Coabuile 221.

2. Roston therefore sade anctier date dith LIRIE/3 for that

sese evening

ing. icaton shoves LIHIiG/3 the tuo pictures passed topia by

tue Station

of persors suspected of beirz "Rómulo" and the lat colleaque. IIRIG/3

told Portos that be could see no resenblance to either person, but be ?elt

that the photo of the stozt serson corresponded to the descriptice of the

"Pavel" he yas supposed to seet. He recalled thet at the timel the ledn

Berrios brothers told hir they would arrange lol: "Favel" to contact biz

1n texico City upps his returs, they showed bin a ratter poor refrcauction

of a picture of Pavel that led appeared in the local press follo.ing a

gunfight toat Favel had had on the border while crossing into rexico.

3. Roston then expressed to LIRING/S his grave reservaions coLterLing ag

the proposed travel of Il3 to Guaterala in the corpany of his sew fiR

Iriends. Roston pointed out that such a trip dould be extrenely risty for

IV3 personally with little hope of any worthwhile production for Zoirton.

LIRI'G/3 agreed ard said that be felt be would have to continie to stall.

even at the risk of alienating the affections and conficence of big nex

contacts. forton suggested that 113 tell theu shat before ho could possibly

consider such a return trip he would have to visit Felinal with his vile

and child to get thes settled there so that they mould not agein be exposed

•to the difficuirles they suffered duriag his last trip - financial as vell

as psychological. This voulà five W3 at least another sonth before he

vould be faced vita tibe tri,. Borton added that 1/3 should offer to do

"ever-thing possible" in Mexico for his friends, revlexing lor then his

knoxledge and experience of the border areas, his service in the savy as

vell as his reasonably good inonledge of photo-raphy.

4. Horton then stressed that I/3 should assume that everything,at léast in

Bunnary fors, that be discussed with the PAR officials be vas in contact

with rould directly or indirectly be reported to the LInING dIfico, and that

hence he should "play it straight" with butht sides.

---

## Page 75

8 ¿acuary, 1969

Subject:

LIRING/3 Report of Allegation of iCUlar Affiliation.

1. At 1000 on ? January, 1969, at tie restaurant of the Camiró Real Hotel

ilRING/3 reported to rowton that is bad just received three letters fros

Harta Barries de jeds, the nother of the leós Earrios brothera (Miguel

and Juán) whos he bad originally set during his confinemest in Guatenala

City. ¿e save the original letters, Bonton's translation of dich is

attached, to Roston to copy and study. iIailo/3 appeared genuinely staken

at the reviation in the second paragraph of the letter, dated: 29/12/68,

that the "man co the bicyole" (Carlos Perzabal) had britten ia big lettar

to tarta that IIRING/3 was "workire for arother corpang (*CZIR4) und that

told Roston that de bad suspected that Perzabal had accused his of perhaps

causing the arrest, but he never deaned that Ferzabal would! eo so far as

to accuse his outright of being a sCImM agent.

2. IRING/3 thea speculated that Ferzabal could not bave done such a series

thirE of bis ova Initiative, but rust ascessarily have been inspired ly

sore oatside source, rost

probably the LIBING eguablisment. He contiried

that he therefore felt it core necessary than ever to put the lIalüG Chief

"up against the wall" end force his to aduit ais complicity. miariG/3 added

that he had seen "Rómulo" on 3 Jacuary as pleased and had told bin about

the letter Iros Marta and Terzabal's treachery. Lecording to LIRING/3

"Rónulo" became indignant and volunteered to accorpany IINING/3 to the

LIRIo establisament to have the isole thing out once and for all. IIki:6/3

appeared so disturbed at the unexpeuted news that forton found it impossible

- to check with nin on the exact tire ard place be allegedly wet "Rémulo" on

Friday, 3/1/69. Then Rowson stated that he felt it very important to iden-

t1fy "Rómulo" positively (Rowton alleged that be bad accesis to the Gober-

nación "nug file" of persons wanted by the Guatenalan Government and given

to the Mexicans for identificatica), LIRING/3 volunteered to arrange to

meet "Rómulo" sonewhere in publie as soon es possible so that ko-ton could

get a 5o0d look at bim ( as he had pretlously done in the case of "Garcia).

3. Ronton advised LIRING/3 Ees not under any circunstances to attempt to

lure "Rómulo" to any public place, especially sinco the latter had estab-

l18bed a pattera of meeting with bia in a safehouse, but simply to tell

rovtos the next time he was invited to visit the garehouse and konton could

cover the place fron as convenient a spot as possible (e.¿. 'ioolvori?"s

across the street). Rostca also encouraged toRriG/3 to talk again vith

LIRIrG/9 rabber than the Chier Lirtio Ii Tir bore of sore prodaction.

---

## Page 76

14-00000

Chtel, Fl DiVIsIOn

Chlof of statios, Gusterala CIty

Chlor of Station, Mexico CItY

PERUMSN/TRE LIRING 3 OperatION

!

deBion Raguired: FI

ROSeTENCO

: H1014-38114, 27 Decesber 1968

Formarded herruith as attacheat ol ira elint reporta

prepared by dallace B. RuTtaY on the latest develocents of

iDa LIRINGS OperatION. Tis Most trportant of tbeBA arE.

rooterard that ano.

"Robulo," "ho later described LinDell as

*HEIDEL,

aDjeBrOd On lLe Breno as the ilalaca

BR bEtTOES LIBINJ3

and the suarenaian tas.

FUROSItO AGONZALEi VERS, TRON MENDEL called "El

Cato, " apparently made laltlal contact vith LIBITh?

on bis oan initiative.

M2DEZ Bald that "al Gato

"good elcDent" but entasized that he (HENDEZ)

MOUld Do tiE peTEON LIRITI3 Mould teal ith on

FAs Battere.

Tan lattor, without say hesitation, ideatilled 1t

AB JAVICT ACONIRERAS, LEAdIAZ YAR rEPTORERIEtITE

tratinies.

attachoents:

1.

Reports (8), bro

2. DOCUMBAtS (7), aB/C

DlEtribution:

0518 & 2

- C/UHD (T/ATtS - 1 CODy eRCh)

2 - COS, Contenals CIty (U/atts - 1 COpy eRCE)

ENTA - 36181

B BCB&T

1Y JaRRArY 1969

201-798301

---

## Page 77

14-00000

SEE & T

HAMA - 36184

1I SONICO RAN a BUBNACIO! FELINSY CONTACE.

Statiero har the LimeRACe dera curer the

The

havo un ararteent they ueo for clantestico sootiags

VIth 111115-3.

respite

the fact thst the teas

KRONE 1UKI:F-3 fara previoue surveillance 201

that

oP LIninod'e sietch ol lilos vas

also

PIOVIRA", thO LILIACi Esotted Deitber ass.

Ths

Stallen naturally plane to cover ancther seetiag

and la aldu caDlorlng thE COsBiDLlity of seteralalaz

soartsent and

1roa whoa.

It 18 08

sobe interest to note that lilDez, although be save

Liallud the açeed unon

atill at le

the "Pavel" LIälyj3 sas told be sould

IIRINÜ-3 HaS ShOTh a sbotozank

of ûcca

ArTUrO SPIRIT, HarlIez

(known

tO hAVE BEIVICOU &

LettOr "POD

1n serico City used ug sichelle Jeanastte

FIRE LaParo her Jeath 1n jistenala).

LIBIN93

thought

d8 looked dlio a scor priat

of a photostaph

0f "Pavel"

shcan to his vhile still lacarceratod.

=.

¿bIANTS LE appaTEntly sElll 8u801c1ou

1n the oyon of the paludeiers.

2a has received

8046F81

lottera (oe0 parazraDa 2) Iron noRbera of

the PAN lA GUAtEMAlA VArDINI DiE thaI MiVeFAO FURdrE

(BOse Of then calling hla & tOPIll agent) have been

circulatod in that country by Carlos pILABAL jarcio.

KROSINA thAT P'RIABIL's fatbey-la-lma 15 a close

¿TIeNd Ol ChIOS, LINING, LINISGS GOTICEd tDO TUROTE

to the LialNa bea-tass.

LA ILIBE ROOK UN ThE BATtOS

of the accusations sade agalast lin git! inbitto.

The locior said shero ues sothlay to this, but, and

thero ves a but, LIAINiS realaded LIkiNis that

sa tho vast he

bad been consoctod "DIth a parasa

EYSteFIOUS and SUSAlCIOUS a111l1at100s. "

= clear

Juda

LIRING} iNSiSTed Do Masted tO JISCUSE the BaltON

of the allazations

nate aralast hia directly with

CAleS, LIBITS, LIallGY prozised tO sake an appolat-

Tals appolnteest, borerer, Rever

natorializad.

That Chlel, LIziNG say Dave syread

tho allozations sale agalist LIRIvia by pariabal.

HAS COAlITONd bY ROLANdO SUARI (SEO ROFION' g

report dated 31 seconder!.

LI31:G3 al80 took 15

thE NATIOR O1 tRE FIRLARAL CORUACISTIONS MIES HENDEL.

who told slo that tho pas had nald so attention to

then sat ones accospanted LIBIIG-3 tO PLAZABAL'S

k02z0.

LIRINÜ-3, LOMeVEr, 5210 tAO BLAtANA OL

¡ving ula nano ubes askod ubo vas callia].

The

result.

"Bot 1s."

an could be expected, Usa taS! PDiZABAL YES

MINIDEO AITERd TO ACCOMORRY LIRiTIS tO

LIBING RO BALK tO IRE CHIOS, DuR De MarROd LIRIYF3

not to mako eccusations eithout proof.

Incidontal

23106,

!. doeR dot anDesr to te DrO-PERUE..

This 18

INPATOBLINg. IN ILBE Of tDO LAC! that.

COXTRIHAS, MItA

uhan to nay be lientical, Is &

suspectou contact of the plaulatara.

C.

DO tAT, It 1008 not soes that the PAR bas

boca

STeAllY 11B8UTDEL bY the sCCUSATIONS MaJe

IS fACT, HiTSEL SAN tDO t5O OrbAT

FAR DORDOPS LIHINS-3 SOE ON I JRGUETY BATE UTION

118ING 3 to join then la the billa of Juatenals,

ThOre guerTIlla varieTO, they Bald, Mill sons be

---

## Page 78

8

SCRET

ЯНКА - 36184

L56EEiGd.

Juty til's sot hide that tiels surpose

JaB tO

broadcast LIiliJ-3'8 pano eni the fact that

a Mexican had joinad tholE lIght. This vas arsarently

to appeal to the ionican loft and yalo their supdore.

WEIle LIRI:GI has Joclared binol! ready to so back

tO GIATORALA (11 thIA NAS UhAT iCTOY Dated Din tO

dO), Do dId DOE DEDI BOTTON tO LOCide that uroad-

cRatial hia sone iron the juaglos of tuatenula vas i

not a china so tastes anyone to to.

A8 EtatiOn

dIOCtITo, LIRIYO3 polated out tast after his

TOCERI ¡IMIISODIEDI DO hAU tO PASO CATE OL DÍO ELSE

afore dalis any core at the causs.

The best say.

LO dO ThIS 52S tO tALE LIRINUA tO TRONLY and lOaVE

hot with tolatIves.

This lod LI8ING-3 tO ask that,.

11 anything, he could do for the FAR la lexico.

30 {ах. 1

TONeVEr, DIS PAi jIlENIS haYe DOt ILBeN tO

.e===..=

PorenIdad pEeI separate COver us attachanni ll aro

the follon1a5 docusents:

8.

A COPY OI A JELLOS ITON OSCAr tOLER

ВЕОдДіЯ EврIEOKE.

b. A translation and a cosy of a letter, litea

DeCeabEr 1968, 1T0S MATES •BAAR:OS.

C. Translations and conlon of letters frOs

RATEE BARZIOS tO LIHING-3 and LIRIIGA dated

24 December and trON "VIoleta" datod 17 toreaber.

Copies di ino iottera and tuo posterida

FOCCIVET bY LIBINO3 ITON RATINI LAd RIZODETTO

MARQUETÀ AlTaradO datod 10 DeCEMbaS (800 DONTO!"E

rOpOTE Of 18 usceaber).

A copy Of the letter soRt by LIBIlU-3 to

Carlos

*PERZAHAL ARTCUE MITh COnlES 1OT the MexICan

and SDARIBA COMMUnISt PartIOR. TAla lofter 18

datos "5 DoconDer.

A CODY Of SA ATTIClO UTILION bY LIBIYG3

and publisbad in a senicas vagazine.

The date.

DUMDAr, and asTo O1 the magazino aro martes os

the

A COPY Of the DOTO MILlION bY jACODO

•RODRIGUEL PAdIlla (a lOAfILIA DaNDer Of lDo

sateRalan COMMunist IrBy IIvInR 10 ABALCO

LAtTOTICINE CArLOS ALUPLE (UDO TAS sA LApArTONE

FAR LOAUDI 18 UNTENALA NARLI DO CANO TO MAIICO 18

late 1808).

A' copy of an artiele uhich appoaros lo a

8or Elllard C. CURTIS

---

## Page 79

ATTÄCHMENT#3.A

+111110-36154

NOT SUTASLE FER LUCROFILM

CORREO AERED

3 1231

*S/c att:)

HMMA - 36184

ES COPY

201-798301

---

## Page 80

mised sti a teasin

• ..

streiti ia

tacinddi aditon" Ei n

sitnise

mnaPrdreienend sstens 3laa

enat iánid taéisénorinio a tnée tía a mes

usú cma. i.o.

mnasil ondcia bad brd toiaicicmade iadratienda tiai

---

## Page 81

1579-36151

Envelope addresses to Soñon Carios dureco

Decidio

Cordeca i.6

racruce

TerroriZ

Fo retuan andress

Sender's inicals:

%.3.

Isstaaried 18 Decesser, 1958, Guaterala.

* Guarezala, Paceaber, 1953.

Deer Carios:

Excuse te for not having replied to yours of 1ê tovesser until today,

but the affairs of the "patojos" reap =e on she do anù besides = nave

been sick and oset and i seep forgetting everytaine. Seat's see raasca

I haven't puù a date on this letter; yoù don't beliera in duo = crite

two letiers tuat never eot off, büt it's true. ¡e bope thau god are as

well as ever sith your ¿anily.

I have to tell you that the "aciose de la biciclota" iroue ne last doe

aà theù I am a little peeved aù lan bacause me spezis iii of reu. You

shoule sove cautiously, buù don't tanis toao it's a probiés vita is -

va dos't celieve iù. de feel that it's from lear. I lost ris ajaress

and ¿on that reasor don't interd is irite to bis.

"El vigotudo" sends you regards; i regra a vara eñorase;

la caiquita

a kiss; Elsa. Felisacari,"aria Eleza, Guri and the "paicios" nary ragaras

and erraces for the Chirsonas horidays. The "yatojos" are suiii in tre

"pina" so they coulán't core. He'li see wheshar they cen be vita us tae

24t; il not re'll have to go there to be nich duen. In any case I'll let

you know, whan they coze here.

So long with sany best wishes and congratulations to you and your wise sic

chilares. Excuse the long and boring leuter.

• So 10a5 Carlos,

/s/ Farta

print to teen 2 nati

---

## Page 82

= 59m

SAI 2. 2

w9599 7290

---

## Page 83

CC=REO

---

## Page 84

÷=.

===

I1ELN

===

1-уч. 3.

1: 1

....

---

## Page 85

ATTACHMEN: #2C

Hnns=36154

Gautesala, 29. Deserber, 1560.

Carlos,

• :

"¡os cuzcaes"; jour three not leviere case she cano day, an sell as ===

posicard wich is very aturactive. Insane fur all jobs uncurie. In yours

of the dura Jo: asi se to sesa a jeucer to ise "E.û." sui I don't under-

stand izere you rean, aná to ince sime i don'e recoeize icose irities.

Please ezgiain tO te clearly ¿cat yoù jean so taù I ca compig.

is to use lettes ¿rus the "=an on the coyele", I sislaid iù since i siár'=

like weat it said, but 1á i can locate 1ù l'll send iù to you, as ice

"patojos" tola ze to inca use begimina, so car= you can bave an exset

account of it. I, corever, trouroù the reigaù doey gave to it exaggerased.

In ELy

case be vrose to tell se thaù toù vere acriiba cor auctuer cospaay

10I!) eni for that, masara l shouldnla contide in anvunira trat tou sirao

äilie to se. But I'= very sincere i seau respest and for that reason'i

got very angry. Consider this, tuar iben yoù moth sere bere,, the sourer

úi that persoa las vary nice to re, laristing ¿aubery anù sifts ca =e,

¡or ibica I am sincereiy fateíui and do not torren, bur dis action ¿ces-'=

seen (conest) to =e.

he all beva to be lojai seù iaitcapi to our conviori=s

anã:1ut be spareless nita respect to ou cunrades; de bare to de respo=-

siùie iù all our actions.

I baven'e bees able to write intal icesy since I's runairs around town ar-

ranging things., all thin sust be boring to you. deceiva seetings ira=

¿guel, chiquita, zegra, Varia, felisa, Iy randson, alsita, jorditaand

Jai. Aiso Iy dia "abrazos" and 500d dishes.

Is/ tarta

Carlos: Lesbia (La jegrita") sezas yoù fona renesbrarces.

Excuse Saa

red pea ad the bad banduriting, Isagine! you cooléd all of us

since ye ziougat joù had rada the parisuras cars jourself, -sizca

you pain: so reil, but you'= not song to believe that. I'=

wriüits Jou just a leu lines because zazá didn't leuve le zuca

space. Gratinos to your dice asd chilures, erea scough I baren'=

dad the pleasure of meeting then. so losg,

Is/ iosbia

---

## Page 86

Cuatecala, 29 =ecezbez, deso

sear Sciciaa,

Jais leiter is do senà juù gratins in dee boge dees poù are dei:

I vas cappy to Learo lias sue persea de inuse to sé vas you; it cas

quite a practical dose sicazácilsala rees i louna cut taat it was really

Carlos ubo vas initine. bell ti= usas use casier le seau wiüh ube colapizas

Las I0t yeù beez raceives.

Nary "a'brazos" ad erdearents laus jour isteza

Carlos:

1s/ "'aria.

I'I 8e1t1e5 sinoly to selê por ai test cisses for a prospercus

ara

Izjpy nes rear.

15/ 2235°

....

---

## Page 87

Guarezains 17/1:152

CarLOS,

I sezà Jou Sy besE, MiscirE insa J0N dId gins Landly are soll.

Everyucing bere is the same as inea jou dare sita uso se leared

Ice can settle bita the "Chiao" the accounts vou leêt bare. Be's

F01-5 t0 Send y0a I40

Jou'll appreciate son difficult iù das ton us to liná ises amora so

zany aitractina cards de have beze.

Zou cas irite to soña Inica, Erdericos and "casta prosto."

Is! Vinlor?

ate above is che co tee many oversicaus of toña iuisa. Bouse it.

(Zanünriting 0° Maria)

main

47 N 9 77, 5.000т,7

---

## Page 88

A Edifico Gridesi a. 6

1 Minico D. Ti.

CORREO AREO AIR NAIL 'PAR AVION

757 20-17

1.

---

## Page 89

Carands 17110/48

• :

Carlof :

QUE TE ENCENTRES RIEN EN CLiCA

GiE TÚ ViOlE FuÉ

nel Toso Difü.-

CiENTES

DENTE iNS

EL TRABAO QUE DA CITADO TASCARIAE

ENTRE TANTAi y TON MUDAi QUE DEVi

TENELES - PREDES ESCRIBER A PRA

TE RECUERDA

---

## Page 90

AT EN

Zeneili Idi K.

GUETE MNET, E.A.

.':

ELRin CoCcOSNALoGO CORREO 102E?

EnofIcei Léüreses fi-& ViriaNAil

focMuir y prENior ViRNECUY

BéxIcon, DF.

1. C

M. En

da l sudaritaed, lls isar ireoni 1...

---

## Page 91

Licatignali, 24 de Dicianhe de 1408;

sarcos al escitoir esti ie

con des

suraches, tus

el mis no dia las

trendo a doande es o a quin, pus

me manduças a.

en centa que cuando Nolo estuares

---

## Page 92

a que. la mona de is me leno

2: 26dо tona

de incrite

ina lu

asunto. Esta iga te stania aburris

tra seguidad reale recastos e

Fa. Chúgreta, la pregia,

Marie, felisa, el mesto, la Elsita

con rio e, trai teta

---

## Page 93

Fraternala, 214 de Die ds 14.63

Estimada Chichai

die e De prin alicente

Incitie is

en unión de su espori l hijis.

riño de su arriga sporta

CARLoS:

TE ESCRiGO UNICOMERSTE PARA DEGERATE

JUYOS: DICHIN Y PEOSPERIODO EN IL pÃONNEND.

ATiyALOS

---

## Page 94

→ATTACHRENT #2D

+ 50079-34654

--...

Jian:

benlne Tlid fier.

Edlicis Lsonelires A-6

férijice 1l Jinsteto Zsdrical

Aartr

iDrFuene

біті.!

37-43700012

0 9.71

---

## Page 95

Eincitesalo, dc el lia le eonss 6s

Dints:

Ercatra Del iie.

Lei: feracocile na friotachera dinanio, seibnalis slecsasedo téareuantiia.

igsscosto ié henee irlad al ando de Ia cisnora yf i-a bigjas.

tecilro ds pacio mi sun ho praù srarilint setez diacios pitahra,

no como emiijes di no crmo bemaconns, g000od bonyi furts trrnn pe

Inozio- diportenidad sle tutamasz, plis ti sabao spu cnntes semectars

baità berseriato pasa poerenoro comeo been auen, cin lei dilunie.: 'i

eolegue sque does aroodzagcó dol nasitoo spre sioho. y a cir snde teadao, sue saia

y 6668 2 6-66 409a0 tjud fäsne seoad jeley sasmcclaad ay done fitfei

firo, zuoo al buile dl tra cirso pjneciiao, le mboado sind poo tal

de ini bello puzéi, paca sire le acuunctes stesaté tn frem mes siue crinmper

te prcunde lfoi dercà fiondle ço checito bimasess je do nou deciaate

bren@smroteepo.eng.falig.ooz hogan

Ze eie t gfi Jorose jonó y fligued tiers dn dãão poura hoinóo fanée dó dé-ts ia.

ao ie lea o Nige l Piuet de reslan e ben inefaiel

---

## Page 96

Ensatencia de de dicinar a 2968

Fines:

Copalos del je.

insaint pesandi de frenes salud al leto de cupidos

resentid

-

batia fuera po la de la i a 2 pie todo

En esta hate en repre de deco masia filita

pio muro al lado de sa queridas familio.

Pucita saluda de mis pades inio temanos 3

рістого ра

zadostiter

pimpe lo permedes incita caludes de mi bajosa

de mando una. Bella postel de si tinoso prez.

siempre la recueda.

: Mújeel Arquetos A.

29 0o= # 87-13 gon 13.

}

7..1

---

## Page 97

Gatine Rod his he de 1344

sisten do est, timoza, for the

16 • 46 6ONA

po fie

на ліс

DiATEMAiN CA

mi quite Stratenals

para su. bailos

Rude is Rejects Meredo

---

## Page 98

14-00000

ATTACHTENT #ZE

11019-36184

1097

=EESCHES.

Ferzobal:

•Jurcos tuvirn: dia tun exposicacia:

sausas gue

caserie que tag peceraos

su oportunidad.

Ahora, 105 =0s1uei de árania pasacal, cariliar y pos

sablezerce para cubrir prontes de lns que do dù la roisi, estás

deforzando los hechos y re estás difamarán.

au astitud en oe boresia. Tergo en ti 10des, pruebas

coicitAs de sus calumaias y cato no say en mirtir ni un fraraiscare

las haré seblicas, considero auy grave la sicuación que estás pro-

vocardo, Si sá dispares de alesentos concretos y definidos que con

fiere: lo que estás civilgarão, le sugiero que sambiér lo hacas.

AsÍ tanto tú caso yo =os atendreros a las consecuercias.

Colo farala

c.c. a

oigariszas cospetentes y personas

interesacas.

Pers eno

---

## Page 99

SEMPRE FEIO

ILANUARY 1969

ATTACHHENT #25

15009-36154

mi: in ile contattiamato = 27 SPino

reziars

Faccio pad Pare e5 S0 2E

ci sia duo ana da do Coacriane, de anteria casa

-u0 a :0::

== E la ricana, Fucs in comune do ica

Sia jin :.

is'=

Cati di Mirando =-=-

contraccisa

¿e=: E: 5

=--i

=====

Iticos:

==-=====-

cuzi

-è permis

..

F56 20j d1 cuinchi"

rinnamoti

..=..

colina ricréecasa una grano =

-cio in pian se rela

====

artiá.

To crio que cingera Sci dacario 1=0 50!

"-idea""

in.

"sacrilanio" sonza is-

cá tá periaro. E tão do de lajão de so

se dos cenios que se te insi

IO quiere dosi diare de ecigca:

==

amicizi is di

¿io dE que la pOlta Ie Geusa. Far is =

= e suje:iro ce

Icare.

sesicago que is "genço parai Farsa" es

=: una sthi do ds sticivicres

Coince jurado.

mencierio que ine somelica Eso

a Focicai

E= Est

arrjeres iin rinio diro fuis si esc-iita

risiiciãa dis Guates do jetusici

,R.ö

---

## Page 100

• ATTAIHMEN, #2G

#1 17 009-36154

¡i frate al ince denardare quinto de

io te

legaio a qualio ideato daco o pediargio.

mincio pici per di a dei di in cande della.

irin

insacro!

vinte

---

## Page 101

220a48 sz32t5

Lajuines

058.

bare la saie trilis dio

it.: 1.1).

cantis ras

épindilis.

de las tandia.

ATTACHMENT ACH

7137-1883

411.A:360181

SPICO%. 2i de cobre.

-las Fales Plaidr; ie

wharon hoy a it saliades

de los larr:as de Mancién.

Esptesarna la esperanza ouk

irin co-dusea a porer

ca terad cas poconcros.

10s

Liseraies

ciros a lierris en

caba caciones.

itas

cin dures pirertessi

Sis harerris dolidarios de

ENOVACION

F3H0RO D3

GUERRA

BEI GRADO. 21 de c

tifie.- lil poligio

ur.3

=2ua gierra psota!

caté

la

peutilidad de que lis

sien les polencis

2io hos el

Tudio Culéez, Chis, ilordes 12 de Octubie de 1968

lus acciors militares.

057 HE

do try en dis médias su1.

crincentes servic

curate

inta gira espocial

• *

Es un caste

prec dente

de Gratemala, la AFP

12-

forma que la Cotte la ase

laciones de la Recuttica ve

cina.

¿echaró absuelios por

laita de pruebas a los piole

sores vericazos.

Carlos jis

rado y Carlos Manuel Pas-

LA SITUACICH

EN PANAMA

• PANANA. 21 de octu

bie-

El liamariento para

genernl

boras Sechs for la

Fedara

ción Ertudianal de Parama.

cn

protasia cor cei

racionie

solpe de

escado militar.

tu-

su poro érico boy, Laformes

Percatralis de la ciudad zos

sion que se verificara ais

lados sicilesies de bioler-

сіл.

Algacos enercios pertia

nicieres corridos y el trinci

1n paitió más sápito. que

TINE 94551 1a35E4

10:2 =

luc

SUcIt

zibal, quienes se ercontra-

-Carlos laads es en

chia-

ban pieros ca un caspo de

panceo detitigio que a tra

concentración

ies de su gren calidad artis

úsde el pasado l de abril.

tica como pinios y grabador.

supuesta vente acusados de

ha hecho grades açoriario

alisicades

conectades

con

nes a la cultura

nacir cal.

noviniento

guerrilero.

Como ciudadaco el pinio:

La noticia alearrà sia du

da los circulos inte'arivales

Carlos jurieo as desempe-

de nuestro Estado, ja que

to con veriacera pasi

ricles inicas en el Insti

to

nacional ledgenista, en

Salleron de

Checoalovenuia

BUDAPEST. 21 ce oc

taire-las primeras unici.

militares hingaras

que

rarios de tes rectros. lEn el

de

San Crisibao tue fen-

decor.

jurro

Rosario

Castclares y listro Arie

nis Nionizro, Co extao: di-

teaito grignol

"PE-

TUl.", que es lenqua fee!-

tal diarratara ena gran la

bor entre la piolicia indi-

legaron doy a esia pais, cru

=undo la

remiera jur

punies. Fete es el

tres

primer

contijonio miliar que pir-

la de lierras checos, després

de ces ratificalo el tarado

chier-soviétiro,

la pericanancia e ritan

de

lis tropes del facio de Var-

Jires

de los dios de Chis-

pas

La injusta entrelación

de los proferros

Jarado y

Peritel lasie étiro

sorte la fere dite fo

mis de la LINASl) mavili-

só a arpliss gripes de in-

listriales

trasés de la Secretaria

de

Re'aciones

Exterio res

de

DR5E5C

¡Tro plis. exigió al G

Gestemala respe

10 a la vida da dabas perso

nalidales y demandaron un

jrico apegado a la Ley. En

La lis museresas peticiones

er este sentido se

destacó

la techa por el Colegio de

Mogados de Túrila Gutic-

Irta

EL, APCLO VUI

CUMPLIO SU

PZOGRAMA

CABO KENNEDY. Z1

retabra-

citronsa

Las iel ApoloVil hier

ron boy su ultima traimisión

pur ¿levisión

inciisvición la luae do ut

Ambos detenides estaban

óines mener, para iriciai el

arisidos par supuestos ac-

decasso a la terra

el cis

los de "propaganda subver

siva", realizados el dia 17 de

de

2nãuna en el didiatico

Occibental.

abril: es decir tres días des

despesés de

pois de haber caido presos

traim tien

aparecis

parrailas de

cardo se dirigian, en

ur.

ichrisnnes

viaje turistico a la Repúbli-

que la rista

ca de El Salvacor..

aprio VIl habis conseguida

enda lo que se habis propers

El cable de la'AFP infor

to. te inuición de! soir prin

forma que dabos profesores

ciril del Apolo, sicirdodo

fuiron trashadlades desde la

ca I-3 úrbita sás bris, coo

cinel hacis el

reropuerto,

cade abordaron un

cánio en la pasición pro

avión pia pare la misie eriplea

---

## Page 102

SECRETIRLAT DISSENIAATION

NOT OET.F 10

LiNSSIFiED MESSerE

"Pren filled la.

162049 1009-15-161161

SOTTED

₴:

X-ALE tO TAE NO-

FILE RO EDET TO

'po

213T8aN556

Das copr

338

SECRET IEZ3Z3Z JAN 6S CITE GUATAMALA CITY 9997

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

REF A. 194 A 36174

16J 31N73418

B. HECA 9789

1. PEP PARA 1 REF A, FAR COSTACT ANCHA TO LIPINGIE IS

"ROMIRO AND MARIO MENDEZ- MAY PE IDERIIFIAPLE WIIM

(MENDEZ> AGUILAP. SISSION IPACES MENDEZ DESCOIPE HIM AS POT AFMED

ACTIVISI NHO ILLECALLY ENTEFED MEXICO JULY ISES. MENCEZ PHYSICAL

DESCPIPTION FITS THAT GIVEN PEF AC PHOTO OF MENDEZ FEGUESTED| FPOP

LIAISON, AND WILL PE POL. HED ADOPESSEES WUER PECSIVES, WITH FULL

STATION IPACES.

20 PEP HAM-iCSTE, LIREEEL/ i IN PERSCHAL CONTACI WITH MENDEZ

IN JULY 196S. IF LIREPEL/ 1 AVAILAELE, SUCCEST SHOW HIM LIPINES

SKETCH OF "MARIO MENDEZ" FOP FOSSIPLE IDENTIFICATIC.

SECRET

bein

Wili fiG

SECRET

---

## Page 103

=0.

53E0

DISPATCHI

Chin Crita

SECRET/ FEAT

2: 2220 FS. MOXHO

_Chief, KI Division

Chief, W'/COG

GEES LEIS DEC

EN LOG MUSING

Chier or Station. Lexico City!

coins

Activities Against PRUNES Targets in Detober and Jovember 1968

Action Required: See paragraph 13.

Reference

: H.MA-35591, 10 October 1968

1.

Personnel: There were no changes in personnel in

the PERUMEi Section of the Station during October and Noveuber.

Fallace B. ROSTON returned from his ThY on 15 Ostober.

Leslie I. HENDRIQUE waS at the Station TDY 26 through

November in conrection with the LisiGi case.

Henry d. SLONAY

was at the Station TDY on 8 November to debrief AYSTRUT-16.

Leonard S.

TORST visited the Station during the last week

5720

1=

Continuea.

Distribution:

Orig &

2 - C/KHD

2 - C/KH/COG

DISTAFOR SCRISOL AND NUMBER

HUMA - 36185

CGASSIFICATION

SECRES/RYBAT

DIA

15 January 1969

5430-120-130

Luing/s

---

## Page 104

CONTINUATIO:: OF

DISEATCH

SECR. FT/ RYBAT

3183e dia litritin

, 35185

2. Operations in PlUMES and Against lisiting PBRUNEN

Officials:

LIAGILE-1:

LIAGILE-I cane to lexico on

19 October and

returned to PERLimi on 1 lovember,

out he did not contart the Station.

(See NIXICO

CITY -7974.)

B. LICARD-1: LICARD-1 returned froa his TDY

to scrid in October.

His mission sas unsuccessiul.

The Indrid Station provided detailed reports on

this operation.

LISAGA-1: LISAGA-1 returned to Jexico on

25 lovember 1968.

He remained in lexico to receive

special training and to undergo debricfing by a

Headguarters TDier until 9 December, when he returned

to PBRUNEN.

Subject of MEXICO CITY-6266:

LIADLIB-1

finished his debriefing of Subject during this period.

(SEE H4S-S001E)

E. - HAGLID.-1: HAGLIDER-1 did not return to

Fexico during this

period.

F. YJHAIT-2:

YJWAIT-2 did not return to lexico

during this period.

Subject of MEXICO CITY-7595: Subject

defected to the lexicans during the Olympics.

The

Station arranged for a press conference though

LITAWIL-3.

LITAVIL-3's debriefing revealed that!

Subject did not hare any intelligence of value.

(See also MEXICO CITY-7621.)

ANKILLOS-1: ANILLOi-1 arrived in Mexico

on 22 joverber and returned to PBRUSEN on 2 December.

FRADYER could not meet him as he was at Headquarters

on TDY.

(See MEXICO CITY-8215 and -8335.)

3. Active Leads to prospects in PBRUNEY:

A. Subject of MEXICO CITY-5442: LICOUET-2

received a call from Subject on

24 Jovenber asking

hin to take care of two friends who were visiting

Bexico fron PBRUVEN.

During the same call, Subject

indicated he would

be coming to lexico City soon on

vacation and would

notify LICOLET-2 of the exact

date and details.

AVICARU'S-1: After enlisting the cooperation

CI ANICARUS-3 in Veracruz, the Station is awaiting

the arrival of AUICARUS-1, scheduled to transit l

Bexico City fron PBRUSEN, to re-establish contact

between the

tro and have AJICARUS-3 develop ANICARUS-1.

(SEE XEXICO CITY-8136, et cetcra.)

AXCAJOLE-2:

Per SEXICO CITY-745.1 and -7153,

AXCIJOLE-l sas scheduled to visit lexico Iron pBRuMai.

Bovever, his father at the last minute reportedly

"blocked" his departure.

(See also SEXICO CITY-7574

and. -7622.)

6-1€

53a

CLASSIE CATIOTO

SECRET/ RIBAT

JESSINUTE

КАє на

2 of 8

---

## Page 105

DISPATCH

SECRE: /RYBAT

12X4 ÷ 45185

that to bout:

:52320

LIAISANAC-1: LIALSAC-1 tOld RONTOS on

23 soverbor that he

is a close, long-tire frieud of

the Subject of H3BA-26016.

says nos he belices

ne can develop a close relationship with QLIOS, i

E. Suljert of MEXICO CITI-7916: The Station

is cooperating with L'ERGS in preparing for, the

of Subjeet's son in lexico.

The Station

has assisied in getting a lexican visa for the son.

The son arrived in lexico on 2 Decerber,

but it has

not jet been deternined whether he is willing to

be contacied and, hopefully, debriefed.

4. •Legal Trarelers to PBRUMEY:

LIRING 4: According to LIRIIG-3,

no cordition to accept any

instructions for a trip

There is,

however, soze

possibility that LIRIXG3 nay go to

"cultural" mission, at which time he

will report directly to PBRUMEN officials os his

activities in Guatenala.

LIRING9 has reiterated

that he sants both LIRISG3 and LIRISG4 to:20- but

nas not suggested dates tor this travel (see

MIXICO CITY-8159 and -8228.)

B. LIRETO-2: LIRENO2's papers are finally

Rowever, the recent

eath of her nother, as well as the recent incar-

ceration of her son

(in a frane-up by his enolover.

see SIXICO CIIY-81S2), has brought her to a physical

and psychological lon.

The Station is alloting her

time to recuperate before raising the question again.

C. LIAlKLE-1: LIANKLE-l has not yet settled

in Mexico City.

There was no contact with her

during this period.

LIARI-1: Per MEXICO CITY-7433,

was net during the Olympics, but did not hate access

to much infornation of value. (See MEXICO CIT1-7563

and -7741.)

In spite of the fact that he was in

daily contact with PBRUNEY participants, some of whom

spent considerable time ith him, he came up vith

virtually nothing.

The Station,

at present; has no

contact with LIARJ-I, who has returned to the

Monterrey area.

Subject of NEXICO CITY-5853 (Jews contact

Of LITAWIL-3): Subject has been reapproached about.

naking a trip to PBRUVEN now that the Olympics are

He has indicated his nillingness to make such

a trip now.

LITAUIL-3 is arranging a neeting between

Subject and a Station Case Officer.

P. LIREND8: On 17 October LIREÑO-8 vas

Instructed to actively arrange for a trip to paRuler,

and, It he goes, to see about taking some courses i

that country. (See MEXICO CITY-7738 and (lm)-35593.).

the ncantine, he has become conpletely integrated

into the PBRUNEY Consulate and cultural institute.

In his town. In this capacity he will be in a

position to report on PBRUNEY activities in that arca.

воти

Dots

1000

530

CLASSIATCATEOR

SECRET/RYBAT

как но.

3 0f 8

---

## Page 106

COX!:0A110::0F°

DISPATCH

SICRET/158'1

CHES

36185

G.

Subject of Ixmi-35516: The Siation is

still planning

to have PoiTO:

cxplore ile fezsibility

of approiching Subject and using him as 23 ciertual

source in Foilil, there,

bj

the nature ce his

function, he still naintains contacts. (See knis-

35516.)

AUSTRUT -16:

Subject traveled to FINCHEN

on 18 Octobei 1958 and returned on 1 Never'x-r.

O11

her return to l'ezico she ras debriefed by teary J.

SLOva', who care to lexico on IDY for this purpose.

The results of this debriefing were receirce in

UFAA-355.

I.

Subject of MEXICO CITY-8319:

LITAMIL 3

was contacted ky Subject, who returned frOn PEEiEN

On 2 DeCEIbEr.

Subject was debriefed bj a Station

Case Officer

on the current status of the relation-

ship between

his organization and the PeRilE

Government,

and on other requirements given him

before his departure for PBRUNEY.

The nost pralising

factor in this overation is the fact that four of

his cuhaminator will

ho enmina mit for a cantatenco

in April 1969. Subject pronised to give the Station

access to any or all of these individuals..

5. Technical Penetration and Coverage of LIRING and the

Residences of LIPING Personnel:

A.

MIKTRAP in Chief, LIRING's Resideace:

MEXICO CITY-7952 reported on

the difficulties

encountered in trying to have a LIRISK unit installed

In the LIHACK-d LP.

The Station made its mue LIRISK

Installation

on 23 Wovenber.

(See MEXICO CIIT-8182.)

All atteupts

to activate the JKTRAP hare so far

been unsuccessfui.

(SeC MEXICO CITY-8303.)

в.

LISANPAY: LISALPAY coverage of BATER

continued.

EASY was lost on 9 October 25 a result

of a routine installation in the same builning bj

the LIBISK cospary.

Attempts to activate FiST frOL

LISARI were unsuccessful.

(See MEXICO CITI-T59S and

-8232.)

c.

LIATOY: LIMTOY corerage has remained

unchanged.

The LikIat Connercial line still tas

not been reconnected.

LIFEIT: LIFEAT coverage of LIRING21 ras

discontinued on 15 ovenber for security reasois.

The coverage vas renewed on 6 December.

• B. LIONIO5: LIONIOY-1 continued to perform

his photographic and audio duties.

His ability pow

to identify people by name by monitoring Dos 15

particularly useful.

F.

LIROSIN: LIROSIN-l was kept on full salary.

during

the period. In late lovember he was girer

the assignsent of renting a new LP which tas spotted

by LITAISI-2.

He successfully rented this up ou

4 Deceaber,

after LIREvOl laid the groundwork, and

vill move

into it on 18 Decerber 1968.

This will

be the base for an audio operation against. LIBING?,

'WIRING9, and LIRING 13.

53a

USt PARMOUS EDITIO

CLASBIAXATION

SECRET/RYBAT

Дло.

4 01.8

---

## Page 107

DISPAICH

SECRET/RYBAT

HIS - 36185

Trash Operatica:

The trast operation sas

not reictitated during this period.

Audio Against the Residences of LIRING-21

Via LIPEALil the Station located

empty apritnents in the sane buildings there these

tro LilliG officers live.

Alicopts to ront at least

one of these for an

aucio operaiion proved difficult

in yier oi the need

for a cosiguer and finding

suitable people to move in.

LIROSIS-I was goi:g to

attcept to nake some arrangement shen the LP described

in subparagraph 5F turred up.

The Station' decided

the lattei was of higher priority and

its efforts to rent the apartments next to ¿IRING 21

and LIPING 24.

6. Physical Penetration and Coverage of LIRING:

A.

PBRUME Deputs in jerida:

This target

left PCS on 15 Jovember 1968.

(See MESICO CITY-8148.)

B. LITAMIL-7: The Station had no contact with

seen chatting with LIRING nembers on several occasions.

She mas not observed visiting LIRISG.

Fenale Access Agent (Subject of JiEXICO

CITY-5988): No contact was established during this

period.

LIRING-3/LIRING-4:

On 29 October ROTTON

set LIRING3 after his release froz jail.

results of the initial debriefing

MEXICO CITY-7900.

LIRISG3 indicated that LIRING4

was very nervous and upset, and that he wanted all

his orn activity and association ith RONTON to be

LIRING3 has been necting fairly

frequently with LIRING9, who has been debriefing

his encarceration in Guatezala. (See MEXICO

CITY-8159 and -8228.)

L. PBRISIEN Maids:

The Station decided to

mount

an operation against the PBROSEN maids,

selected LIEBRACE-3 as a suitable access agent.

(See MEXICO CITY-7861.) The Station is in the

process of turning LIEBRACE-3 over to LIREALS-1,

who will be the outside Case Officer on this

operation. (See alsc MEXICO CITY-8124.)

F.

Chief, LIRING: The Station has corresponded

with Headquarters about a false flag cold approach

against Chief, LIRING.

This still is in the ex-

ploratory stages.

(See MEXICO CITY -8242.)

7.

Harassment of LIRISG: There were no new fuarache

leaflets put out during this period.

LICONET Debriefing Center: MEXICO CITY-8066 reported

that the charitable sponsorship covering the overt activities

of the debriefing certer.ended on 31 October 1968 and that the

extra financial cover for the office space would end 30 November.

(See also MEXICO.CITY-8179 and -8287.) HHXA-35887

forwarded nore detailed LICOHET-2 reports on the LIColl cover

5005г

530

1A124

Tus 1004: 50%

CLASSUTICATION

SECRET /RYBAT

PAGE NO.

5 of 8

---

## Page 108

CONTUATIO: OF

DISPATCH

S E

3137354

36185

There were no opcrations against QUOOY

Double Agents:

LISASSY-l retuned from his Furopean

on 17 sovchber and was recontacted by LIRING-9, who

revied requirtments on hin

a5 reported in SilICO CITY-8339.

LISASSy-] continues

to have difficulty satisfying LIRING-9

requests. for information on the activities of the: PBRUMEN

community is lexico City and Mia.i.

The CI aspect of the

LISASSY-I operation ras virtually at a standstill for two

first, at one tine or another, either LIRISG-9 or

WSASSY-1 as out of Mexico; anj second,

the Station has beer

unable tu cone up with information which LISASSY-l could pass

tO LIRJSG9.

In this last respsct, LIS:SSY-). continues to be

an excellent channel of WOFIRk-controlled information to the

PBRUNEY Gorernment via LIRING-9.

11. Operations Against PEELEY Subversive Activities in

Iatin America:

LIRING-3: See LEXICO CITY-7900 for RONTON'S

initial debrisfiao se

MEXICO CITY-795. reported that LIRING 3

Guatemala which he interpreted

on a new conno channel between the

Guatenalan rebels and hin. LIRING-3 reported at

length to LIRING-9 on his contacts with FAR neabers

At LIRING3'S suggestion, LIRISG9

LIRING? tO PBRUNEY to make

detailed reports were formarded in HHJA-35905.

HAMA-35904 forzarded a reput of liRiNG 3's imprison-

ment in Guatenala.

B. Letter Drops:

The PBRUMEN letter drops

being covered by the Station only produced one

interesting letter during this period.

(See: HIDIA-

35873.) The Station suggested that Headquarters

follow up on the lead provided.

LIRING-7: LIRINGY continued to see his

Mexican leftist

student "friends" during this period.

(See HIaja-35823.)

He also escorted a high-ranking

member of the Orthodox Church during a visit to

One intelligence dissemination was made on

the casis of information produced by LIRING-7 during

this visit.

LIHACK-4:

When he was in jail in mid-

November, LIHACK-4 was approached by, sone Mexicans

arrested in connection with the student disturbances.

He was asked to take a walkie-type radio into jail.

for their conno, and was asted if he would be willing

to assist them with his har radio equipnent for

direct commo between the revolutionaries and PERUSEN,

since going through LIRING as not satisfactory.

Tho Station is taking a wait-and-see attitude to see

this develops. (Sco METICO CITY-8213.)

Subject of HSIA-35S72: Via LIFEAT, LIENTRAP,

the Station identified a

and the LIMBRACES' WIRING. Background information.

student contact of

on this person, including shotos, was passed to tio

LITIATOS On 21

lovember 1965 with a suggestion that

they arrest and interrogate the person.

(SOC, HASIA-

35872 for details.)

о-Вя

530

USE PREVIOUS COTINAL

CLASSIFLAIÓN

SECRET, TYBAT

XU CONTINUTO

PAGE NO

6 of 8

---

## Page 109

14.00000 •

concaldlinil0:1 08°

DISPATCH!

SECRET/RYNST

1.00.001

HS44 - 36185

12. Miscellancous:

A. AVUICOl-3: 1::B00:-? is employed by a local

Mexican television station and apparently does not

intend to retuin to Purse.

The station had no

ops contact with i BOOK-s duriny the period of

repori.

He planned to travel to the united states

to cover the Apollo/8 launching at Cape Kennedy in

late Deceroer 1968, but this vas not definite.

Travel Control Information:

LIFIRE; LICONET,

and LITErO continued to provide this type of

information.

C. PBRUVEN Pishing Piect:

There was no

activity against this target.

Several fishing

boats, horever, did seck shelter at Isla Mujeres,

and on each occasion several crew menbers sought

The LICONiTs were alèrted each time to try

to obtain debriefings of these nen.

(See MEXICO

CITY-8039.)

ine vicusiris continued lu paurice

QUNOON

cargo manifests, and LIRENO-l provided crew

and ship manifests.

The manifests vere pouched to

JNCOERA and Headquarters for piocessing. (See AMA-

35912.)

E.

ASDESTISE-1: AUDESTINE-I was terminated

per Headquarters direction.

See MEXICO. CITY-766-1,

DIRECTO?-42579, and MEXICO CITY-7739.

. F.

AMDAUB-1: On 17 October AUDAUB-1 asked

for assistance from LIPURE.

(See MEXICO CITY-7709.)

On 25 Ostober he left lexico for Miani, where he

was met and handled by nH/Miami.

JHCOBRA-1427. 1

LIANATOL-I: LIANITOL-1 was met on 17 October

1968 and agreed to cooperate with the Case Officer

by furnishing information on the activities of the

PBRUMENers in the Veracruz area. LIATOL-1

requested that his main line of

corrunication with

the Station be through LIREVO-l for security reasons.

(See HAL -35913 and -35917.)

notified Headquarters of the

Subject of NEXICO CITY-7515: The Station

on the list of "40 „aTival

in Mexico of

The Station was asked

to contact this Subject's brother to determine the

present status of Subject.

and the

report submitted in MEXICO CITY-7751 indicated that

he was content with his life in PBRUMeN and was not

Interested in contacts, even with his own brother,

is there was to be pressure applied for him to

remain outside PBRUMEY.

During a baséball game between PBRUNEN and

the United States during Sovenber,

the PBRUMEN

players attacked several spectators.

Through

LITAMIL-3 the Statior is trying to arrange to have

ne o1 those attacked sue a bIRiNG enployee.

(EXICO CITY-801%, -8048, -8078, and -8285. However

the Station-cleared lawyer ran into difficulties

with the licxican Government.

Court authorities who

passed the lawyer a transcript of the original charges

against the LIRING emplojee advised the lawger he

FORM

530

USE PREVIOUS CUTTICA

CLASSIPICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

conTribes

PAGENO

7 of 8.

---

## Page 110

DISPAICH

0272101

SILKET/ REBAT

HIS - 136185

Mic dug 141.945a 1091412

would be wastink his tine on this case because

order's

from

&n

unidentified high sexican Government

official

indicated

that the planed charges against the

employce would not ke accepted for trial.

J.

ANSTYT-1: AUSTET-] sent a letter to the

home of AUSTRUT-&, who in turn notified the station

to cone and pick it up.

The contents of the letter

were forwarded 1o Headquariers in MEXICO CITY-8130.

This is a Headquartors case in which the Station

participates only as a letter drop via AISTRUT-8.

13.

As can be scen, all the above has been previously

reported to Headquarters.

In view of this, and the fact that

the PBRUNEl Section, in addition, submits regular quarterly

progress repoits on its projects,

it is felt that reporting

on

the Station's activities against the PBRUMEN target is

adequate.

Therefore, the Station once nore suggests that

formal PBRUYEN Section monthly or bimonthly reports be

discontinued.

Please advise.

Raund I. Fundy.

for Willard C. CURTIS

GLESSUSCATON

PAGERO

53a

1055 PAEVIONS EDITION

---

## Page 111

1555g

i = = l.cm

CASSANXATION

SECRET

PROCESSINE ACTION

Xx

NO INDEXING RIQUERED

OMLY QUALFES CASA

CAM JUDGE NIENTE

MICROFILM

sE Scaron, fusterara City

VARNG-3 Operazion

nce: INWW-36114, 27 Decerber 1968

cal with Angel Hirhortn COSTE) Nonn

aL nero cate a centoned la celerente 1s probably

itter individual was forwarded with IGG-3098, 14 June 1963, from a

of r-determined reliability.

In this report GONZALEZ was listed

nö ceive in the peace no. cent of the Guatenalan Commmist Party

GORiZALEZ's date of biri was given as 2 October 1927.

and a photo of GONZALEZ nave been requested fion liaison and will be

ided to addressees wher. "eri-red.

: According to Station inio nation, Gustavo COLINDRES Barrios was

ied on 3 July 196: by the Guatemalan authorities.

He was descrived

•is tine as a nember of "the simply network

of the Febel Armod, Forces

Although no further information

is available in Station files,

DRES was apparenti, cunsigned and sent to El Pavon.

I.. reference to the names mentioned to LIRING-3 D.

do:.. iegria, Jorge Torron and Avecillas"), Guaterais Cit; feels

•piu-ticier to Hector SANDOVAL Alegria, Jose Sauel TORIN

Ricardo Istael VALiTiLLOS Perez.

All of these individuals

re;.. sty arrested by the xican authorities in May 1968 for an

NEXTO CITY 5590, 17 May 1968):

In addition,

y =: a die "Nunez" centioned later by QUIZALEZ is icentical with

a Guatenalan Rightist who was also reportedly

•tEn a. di SANDOVAL, TORON, and VALLECILLOS.

(continued....)

•i

- una

Mexico City

C. es, WHD

Flies

• JAN 15 1969

НОВ ТИКА АО КЛАСТ

HOGA - 9721

DAR

SECRET

14 January 1969

202 "30101

---

## Page 112

• INUATIONCE

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICAT.COM

SECRET

HGGA - 9721

exico city.

ight in a difficult and wortinhile target.

Leonard S. TORMET

daci

?.

---

## Page 113

i..

301

DON LEONA.

Si

РАТСИ

CNSSETICALLA

PROCESSNCE LITION

MARKED FOR MADETSO

of Station, Mexico City-

western Henisphere Division

oF Station, Guatemala Ci¿

LIRING-Operation

INGS

¡NO iNDEXINE REGIARIO

ONLY QUAUFIO INEA

CAN JUDE SULKING

MICROFILM

ace: 10018-36114, 27 Decesber 1968

The "amberto GONZALEZ-Vera" mentioned: reference is probably

ical with Angel Humberto Q..- LEZ Vega.

The only Station trace on

itter individual-was forwarded with fit-3098, 14 June 1963. from a

-n of undetemined reliability. In this report CONZAFZ... lister

we vut tate nocent of the diatenalan Correst Party:

*CONZALEZ"s date of birti was given as 2 October 1927.

Biographic

and a photo of calzalez hav been requested from jiaison and will be

rded to addressees when received.

• ¡ According to Station information, Gustavo COLINDRES Bar:. iS kas!

ted on 3 July 1967 by the Guatemalan arthorities. He was described

is tine as a menber of "the supply network of the Rebel Armed Forces

". ilthough no further irioration is available in Station files, i

URES has apparently consigned-and sent to El Pavon.

In reference to the names mentioned to LIRING-3 by CONZALEZ

toval Megria, Jorge Torrur, and ivecillas"), Guatemala City feeis

probabiy refer to Hector stoVAl Alegria, Jose Saruel TOwV

o5, and Ricario Isnael VALLECILLOS Perez.

All of these individals

repo:tualy arrested by tie Mexican autorities in May 1968 for an

• IC

NEX: 00 CIT: 55>2, 17 My 1968).

In addition, it is

j¿it ice Buzz" metiniti sater by CANZALEZ 1s isentical with

Rr:5:23 unci Sarnez, a Gatenalar Rigitist who has also reportedly

ted its iriürdi, TOROS, aDd VALLOCILLOS.

(continued....)

•Isi

-ta:

i. Menin City

CreT, ID

• #ides

- JAN 15 3593

WRENTS MAY BE

ID OR PELOVED FRO: TILS FILE

ANS KHA

OSTIATON STAND

I DAR

!

HOGA: 9721

SECRET

124 Jariat;

:909

201-30301

173/23

"?"."

NOTE:

---

## Page 114

'NUATION OF

DISPATCH

MASSFRATICN

-SECRET

ANO ALMAGER

HOGA !

• 9721

Quatenala City agrees that CONZALEZ is apparently the FAR contact

plished for LIRING-3 in Mexico. Khether or not LIRING ever seeis to

she services of LIRING-3, the saintairerce of his contact with

iNEZ night lead the FAR to utilize LIRING-3 in some support capacity

crico City.

Such an opportunity could provide kOFIRY with a valuable

ight in a difficult and northwhile target.

conard S. TORMET

• 11

---

## Page 115

in minat

SECRET

rimEri6,1155 176s

• 40)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

JASTAJLHICHS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

ful in Sect. Z. ca

2.

Destroy frons core: sheet, unless-il records

ngnicant acton laken f comments. requi-

Ing preservation

FROM:

RID/

WERDEN, PHILEHA

RID/AN

DV-152

GA -50

IUBELAT-Z

TO

700K

DATE

RECEIVED |PORAXIONS

C/NH/ 1

3 l54 1359

TO: ACTION BRANCH

It bie no and sie shows are not proper.

insert prope: die so beion and forward

FADOERFILE NO

TO

ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I LA BACK I APEROPRIATE

COMMENTS

Kieser

- 122

aul

K

K

›993.

WH/1

Kravior

12.

RIL/ AN

RIN/AN

17.

RID: M

TRACE

DATE MIEROFILMED

B *1

6100

use pries

PERTIONS

fims

VB

16 16-

1714053

PREISSURS SUNDANTS

Do IND Poll: ++9122-529899

J993966.

0078.

ladeniag

MOANG MiR

Iks::

FILE TITLE

VI MASTMACI

MARRIESE)

-DERARES,

J5C-EE9T ARABER

1442 36808

DOCUMENTGA"E

11 Feb 69

SECRET

140

---

## Page 116

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, WH Division

Chief of, Station, Guaterala City

Chitt.

4S06 20- G

/ Nol indes

10

iso.

IRON

MING

_PBRUMEN/The LiRIYG-3 Operation

ACTION REQUIRIO - RiSIBINCES

Action Required: FYI

Reference

: HMNA-36184, 17 Jaruary 1969

1.

Forwarded attached are the two last contact reports

written by Wallace B. ROFTOY On LIRING3 before i INTON's

departure on TDI in late January 1969.

These reports are

ideti iú duu in sauudly.

LUINdiUEL iS

duuints. rEpuit

by ROWTON, dated

28 Novenber 1968, which the Station somehow

failed to forward.

2. That LIRING has forwarded information to the Mexican

Conmunist Party casting suspicion on LIRIYG-3's past activities

did not come as a great shock. Heraclio ZEPEDA is known to

the Station as a previous teacher at the University of Jalapa

who said in 1960 that he would accept a teaching position in

PBRUMEN, a country he has visited on several occasions at the

invitation of is government. ZEPELÀ aiso spent some time

Continued.

Attachments:

L. Reports (3), h/w

" Identity Sheet, u/s/c

75

att 2

copy att

1;

2 - COS, Guatemala City

(w/atts

2 copies att 2)

FI

s/c att: 1

hw att :1

ROSS LIAZINE R

IS COPY

EISPATON

DATE

НИНА - 36408

GASSINCATION

SECRET

I February 1969

501-778301

89038k: 7818.

des: 09311681152

---

## Page 117

- CONTINUATIONOF

DISPAICH

SECRET

FISPATCHS

HIMA -

36408

in 1965 in the U.S.S.R., where he was described as Foreign

Correspondent of La Voz de Vexico,

an official organ of the

Nexican Communist Party (see HJMA-27727, 24 Jovember, 1965).

ZEPEDA apparently also visited Comeunist China.

He appears

to be well acquainted with LIRING9.

In view of the above,

the Station instructed RONTOY to ask LIRING3 to refrain from

attempting to use ZEPEDA to obtain a "bootleg" copy of the

LIRING letter to the Mexican Communist Party.

Ine Station

feels a copy of this letter would add little

to the known fact

that LIRIYG3 is a person that LIRISG continues to view as

"suspect."

LIOSHEART has been asked for up-to-date iniorma-

tion on

ZEPEDA's Party position.

Any information passed by

LIONHEART will be forwarded to Headquarters.

Fanguand M. Farge.

for Millard C. CURTIS!

В-ва

530

USE FREVIOUS CONTION.

CLASUIRICATION

SECRET

CONTANEO

2. 0f 2

---

## Page 118

SECRET

ATTACHTiENTE,

28 Fovember, 1959

subject:

IIRING/3 Report of Meeting with LIRINS/9.

1. LIRING/3 reportea to Kowton at 0915 on 27/11/65 that he had not situ

LIRIlE/9 at the LIRIiG establishnent Irca about 1745 until 1900 on 26/11/63.

He stated that he gave LIRl!iG/9 bis wriüten report on bis recent experiences

In Guatenala and the conclusions be dred fron talking with Pha weabers there.

I/3 also stated that he did his best to assure li, that, aithouph be sympathized

with the lanents of the León Earrios brothers, de was really on the PBRUMeN

side and offered to do all he could to assist the IhINGs in their attempts to

assist the revolutionary forces. The following is Ronton's reconstruction of

the conversation, based on iIRING/3's report:

1/3: "I'I sorry to be late, but I had to firish the report.".

W9: "Alright. I've been waiting here at the gate so there wouldn't

be any further delay. Let's go to my office so we can

=atala."

talk pri-

Upon entering office, 1/9 renoves jacket and offers I/3 a

seat in the

office.

W/3: "Nell, here's my rejort. I must apologize that it's in rough draft

forn. I had to write it rather burriedly when my tile was not around.

It's really just a series of badly orgarized thoughts and ideas but

I'll be glad to explain. There's a great deal nore, of course, that

I could explain on the subject. Do you wish me to read it?"

I/9: "Fo, that's alright.

Iv9 glances through the report and continues:

"I'Il read it carefully later, I really dian't expect such a long

report. I appreciate 1t. In the meantine, how are you dobng in your

personal affairs??

I/3: "ell, as I told you last time, I'm very such up in the air at the

noent. My exposition has started but is not going as well as can be

expected - as well as I had hoped. You kaow, these things have their

ap's and down's. I'll sell sone things, at least to cover my current

expenses, but l'll really have to get better organized linancially

In the near future. The first problem that I'm really corried about

-18 my wire, and I frankly feel that I sust appeal to you for help.

J/9: "Of course. Well, what is the problen?"

I/3: "AS you inod, soce tine ago my wife and I had a serdes of unpleasant

situations that aljost led to a separation.."

W9: "Is that right! nas it that serious?" "anything political?"

3: " No,

Alcatt: 1

I feel thatutely not. It was purely a domestic misunderstanding. Nov

nuat se very frank with you. I was probably, reggonsible

HIMA - 36403

ES COPY SECRET

---

## Page 119

SECRET

2.

toe # 111113-910108

because of an affair I had with the Caren, - you know, the daughter

of the doctor he just said hello to as ve came 1n, tie lose tal¿las with

LIRING/2. "

1/9: "Is that so? I had no ideal"

I/3: "well I assumed you new, since Carmeu"s father 1s a close friend of

your Chies, in any case, it's over now, and I don't expect any trouble

Iro% that quarter. However, I feel that I should explain that i have

an obligation to ny vite for all that she did not ne while I das in

jail with no belp fron anyone, as you well know. "

I9: "Yes, it was difficult for her."

W/3: "You see, my wife is a sincere revolutionary, but she really doesn't

want ant Dart of the artivitt that a nornlutian annands

nany others, including ny forner cell-mate and his farous uncle, who

talk a great revolution, but fall apart when the chips are dova."

1/9: "Yes, we know plenty of those types."

W3: "iell, anyway, my wife wouldn't approve of my reinvolvenent end keeps

pressing ne to take a "respectable" job waich she knows I could obtain

throug my friends. *bat I really wnat to do 1s to sonebow calm her down

and errenge things so that she jun't have any idea of ny poiiticsi pians.

As you know her father is very 11l in New York, and she l6 anzious to

see him before he dies. I can arrange an exposition in Montresi and then

ast the father to come up to see us there. That would det arourd the

problem of a U.S. visa, which I'a sure neither of us could fet."

W/9: "lio. I'n sure you couldn't."

IW/3: "The els problem is transportation. Air passage is too expensive and

unfortunately there are no boats going fron bere. They all stop st New

Jork. Don't you have regular ship traffic to iontreal, so that ve could

go toat way?"

I/9: "Yes de do. I'= sure that could be arranged. I see no problea."

WB: " ie could then kill two birds sith on stone, by stopping off at the

Fosur.sn capital enroute."

W9: " Yes, there's really co problea."

W/7: "I hope you understand uy probles. I'n in a very serious way financially

at the nocent, and coulda't possibly solve this probled mysels vithout

jour belp."

WW9: "ell, how are you doing otherwide - I lean in meeting |1ivin6 expenses?"

:I/3: "Just getting by. You know we. live on a very sodest - day to day basia.

SECRET

---

## Page 120

SECRET

3.

29 November, 1968.

"The exposition is not going as vell as I expected. But the problem

I's really concorrel gloat is thai of sy sife."

1/9:

I./3:

Iw/9:

1/3:

"Iot ber' go to FBRuMeli."

"what do you sean? I don't understand."

"Hell, I neen with you, when you 5o."

"Ch, yes, I see. Of course. She can see her relatives and there won't

be a problem. You know ay wife vas gettico pretty desperate about seeing

INSUXXXERISINKEY TaLK her father and she even talked of going to the

Northaverican Anbassy for a visa so that she could go to liew York. Inagine

that! I told 1t rould be no use - just a reste of tine since she voilad

get the visa."

IQ: "Por beaven's sake, tell her not to go! That dould create ao end of

intiräucariuso in bae brUMiN capital. Calm her downaby all means.

Iu/3:

1u/9:

I/3:

"Getting back to oy refort, as I said, sany points can be expanded."

'"Yes. Let's zeet agsin on,s8J, Monday, at a tine convenient ior you."

"You know I bave plenty of time row. I'a up in the air, as I said, not

doing much - just the exposition. Cn the other hand you'ra busy man.

You set the tine."

1/9: "I tairk about 1000 would be good. Is that okay with you?"

1/3: " Yes. I'll be back."

W9: "I'' fald you covered the important point as to what the fal thinks of

us. This is very important to us. Also you say that you expect a contact

with one si them here??

"Yes, with a certain 'Pavel' but I don't kzow when. I an'in costact as fcu

can see. They have been vriting le nore or less regularly siace my de-

parture." (I/3 takes two letters iron pocket and shows then, but Iw9

nakes no nove to take then or read contents.)

IW9: "Well, I'll be waiting for you at 1000 on Mondey."

2. LIRING/3 told Rorton at a subsequent seeting (1100, 28/11/6800 that wben

he returaed home the previous evening, he found to bis surprise a note slipped

under the do to lili asking ta cat to forget to come by at 1000 on

Monday, 2 December, 1968.

V B Rorton

SECRET

---

## Page 121

14-00000

SE0N.

As if 1

45100-36108

13 JEcUary1969

Subject:

LIRING/3 Report of áctivities for tbe Period 7-13 January, 1559.

1. Rowtos net with IläüliG/3 at the Canino Real Estaurot at 1000 on

10 and 13 January. Fe reported the following developmeats in connection

with the accusatios nade against bi= to liarta jarrios de león by

Identity A

(a) On the everinE of 8 January, 1969,

Identity B

- called of bis at bis hone unannounceá and rade an éffort to

-

scooth over the hard feelinas that hea arisen Letween LIRIlG/3

and her. husband. She denied any knowledge of charges made by

ice inovani soNIudG HiS aDO CLaImed that she could not believe

them in ay case. Wben L/3 stated that he haa definite proof.

in the for af a latter Identity B

insisted or seeing it.

I/3 (who had given the original letter to Roston) atalled pro-

mising to produce the letter on 10 January in the presence of her

husband. I/3 told Ronton that when be atreepted to contact Iden B

and her husband by phone on the morning of 10 Jacuary, be found

the phore constantly busy and suspects that the receiver vas

left purposely off the book.

(b) On the evaring of 12 January, 1969, Arturo Serraco of the CPM,

visited I12I:G/3 at his bore and toic him that the Central Com-

nittee of the CIM had discussed his feud with Identity A.

In resposse. to the letter WIRING/3 had sent to it alleging that

Iden A bas caliging bir unjuetly. Serrano costinued that the

Cc of the Chi! had found the letter too vague to make any sense,

but in aur case could not taise iden A seriously. Serrano told

I/3 that Iden A and

Identity B

had been recently formally

expelled iros the party for ideological reasons, but still had a

number of friends wiiline to vourh fo= tsen. On tre, other hand

Serrano stased that the CC of the ChY. bad received jaformation

"sone time ayo" fron the liniNG office alleging that LIRING/3 bad

been actins in a suspicious nanner, especially vith regard to cer-

tain information be had provided concercing Julián tópes that

"could not cave cone from a soursa otter than the police." Serrano

continued that although the orm bad no love for the LIning office

It nevertteless had to take such a report into consideration and

the burdea of proof was really on LIRI G/3.

SECRET

---

## Page 122

SECRET

28 Jacuary, 1959

Subject:

LIRIIG/3 Report of Address of Guateralan Rofugees in

Mexico City.

1. At 1000 on 21/1/69 LiñI:G/3 tola Rowton that bis old Guatemalas

friend jacobo Rodriouez Pajilla was residing at Calle Veracruz 14.

apartaent, and that tàe Carlos Vege, nom Jacobo had sent to LIKING/3°s

bone with a nose assing i/3 to belp jega, was living in the azotea

(servant's) room belonging to Jacobo's apartient.

2. I/3 also reported that Carlos Vega again called on hin unarcounced

at. hia anartrent on 20 January. and asked hin to arranze toroura bis

PBruter friends to send a package oi medicine to a son of iurcios

who was living in the PüRlHall capital. Vega also asked i/3 to send

two "very inportant" letters to PERCiN through crienis who could

bypess the usual censorship. Il3 prosised to in "hat he could and ascud

Vega to deliver the letters tobin on 25 January.

3. Because of the obvious possibility of provccation in this rather

unexplaised benavior of Carlos Vega (he originally told I/3 that be

was a close friend of

Identity A , Rontor agreed with !I/3 that

no attempt should be made to open the letters ard shat they should

be delivered proptly to the LIkING office for "natever disposition

that estabiishment might wat to make of the letters. W3 pronised

to note carefully the addressees of the letters.

4. Routon told I3 that he would have to leave com for a visit to

Monterrey and was not certain when he woüld be able to finist bis

business there. He made at date, bowever, for 1CO0, 3 February, at

the Camino ñeal restaurant, and asked 1/3 to retura to the sase place

at 1000 on ? rebruary in the event that Rontoa did not appear at the

first tige and date.

Wallace 3. Routon

SECRET

201.718301

---

## Page 123

4-00000

ATTAI

. *

H1n9- 36408

TAti

Serrano, as a friend, advised I/3 to "taie the bull by the

horns" and send as such data as possitle to deiend kinself

to all "isportant progressive" organizations, Ee volunteered

to pass a copy of the letter from jarta Barrios to the CIM and

I/3's version of the arrest and detestion as soon as he had pre-

pared it.

•2. In response to Routor's query as to any other friends I/3 might have

1s the CPM who might be able to obtain a copy of the origiral letter from

the LIRTiG CIfice, LIRI:G/3 recalled thet an old acquaintance from Chiapas,

D0-0011: 257025, ind ¿nicubig iurived oin to alaner and appeared anxious to

палисті

re-estabiisa contact with hin. I/3 told Ronton that be bad ¿nown Zepeda

in the PBRutis capital sore six years previously and recalled that Zepeda

had traveled and stucied in Cosmunist China and the Soviet Union before re-

turing to Mexico. Zepeda recently tolà 113 that he as euployed in CONASUPO

and that he had vritten several articles favorsble to I/3 in' "Renovación"

a daily sewspaper he controlled in Tuxla-Gutierrez, Chiepas. L/3 told Rowton

tsat he later learned thatthe sewspaper was actually orned by Hank González,

general director of COlAStPO, who apparently had political aubitions.

3. onto fullested that I/3 get in toich with Zepeda not ondy to determine

way de bad recontacted I/3 after so long a time, but to ascertain his current

relationship wits the CPH and the LIRIG office, 11 any.

4. LIRILG/3 stated that be hed not been recontacted by "Rósulo" and pronised

to advise forton in advance of a future neeting so that sorton could cover

1t in the hope of getting a good l00s at the Pif representative.

Whil

Wallace & RoNten

SECRET

---

## Page 124

ante.

'ECRET

Attachment #2

НИМА-36408

Identity Sbeet

Idertity A: Carlos PERZABAL

Identity B:

Teresa LOZADA de PERZABAL

SECRET

ste att:l

HMINA -36468

581-798301

---

## Page 125

IES ME

Tacon (29°

VING MEDICA INTRALS - SEEN BY

-SECRET.

ADMANCE-COF

INDER:

X-NET TO FILE MON

DIS

039000 or.

ACTION

кличено

DESTRON DEE

Wst8

508

CAS, CA/PROP

SECRET 2808452 JUE 6E CITE MEXICO CITE

PANAMA CITY, INFO DIRECTOP.

L: S359 IN 9 1 228

PBRUMEN

SEED: ÁO CANADA CLIY 8498

35341

BO MEXICO CIIY 2744

IN 88360

CO PANAMA CITY 2512

MIEROFILMED

JUL 1 7 1569

DOC MICRO. SER

86266

1.

LIRING- 3

(IDENTIIY REPORTED 27 JUNE THAT HAD TALKED WITH

LELIS AMADEO (RODRIGUEZ) ANGULO (281-326789) 25 JUNE. IN CONMECTION

LIRING-3 EFFORI GET RODRIGUEZ WORK AI CIDOC, LIRING-3 ABLE QUESTIOES PE

RODRIGUEZ ON PANAMANIAS REVOLUTIOKARY SITUATION AND SURFACE

13 K

REQUIREMENIS LEVIED REF I.

ES X

2. RODRIGUEZ TOLD LIRISG-3 VANGUARDIA DE ACCION SASIONAL (VAS

=I 4

IMPORTANT EXTREMIST CEGASIZATION VITH POLITICAL LINE PARALLEL TO

LEEP

PANAMANIAN COMMUNIST PARTY. RODRIGUEZ STAIZI VAN ONLY PAJAMANIRE

PARTY "VIEVED WITH FAVOR BY CUBANS. RODRIGUEZ TOLD LIRING-S CHILLA/D

OF VAN IS JORGE TURNER (281-48393), WHO RECESTLY ARRIVE MEXICO CITY

AFTER PELEASE FROM PRIOSON. RODRIGUEZ STATED TURNER HERE TO CONFE?

- WITH. CUBANS IN ATTEMPT GET CUBAN ASSISTANCE FOR VAN.

3. RODRIGUEZ STATED HE TRYING FIND TURNER PLACE TO STAY AND ASYED

LIRING-3 1F HE COULD PUT UP TURNER FOR FEW DAYS. RODRIGUEZ TO

5201 - 3373

8201-48393

3201-306787

AS COPY

SECRET

201-798301

28 JUN 69

---

## Page 126

CHILE SICHITARLAT DES

WAIT NOTHIED

/ 1D1eNCr COT

AM I 355?164E

:ED •

CUESTED MESSAGI

TOTAL COMES

SECRET ta

• 6a..91

(iniseen f.ilod In)

DEPODEl ++40+456079953°E0

сиять то тит хо.

1-063 TO PIE DE_

ROUTUES

BRANCH D

¡ DESTROr I sea.

-

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY RBRS SECRET

INTRODUCE LIRING-3 TO TUPNER 23 JUNE.

4. ACCORDING RODRISUZZ, THELTA KING (221-283373) IS IANAMANIAS

WITH STRONG MATIONALIST POLITICAL GRIENTATION. HE STANDED KING NOI

MEMBER OF COMMUNISIS PARTY BUT HAD WIDE COSTACIS-AMONS VARIOUS

LEFTIST GROUPS. HE ALSO STATED KING IN TOUCH WITH NORTHAMERICANS,

WHO HAVE APPARENTLY HELPED IN TAKISG CARE HER DAUGHTER WHO SICK

WITH LEUKEMIA. RODRIGUEZ ICLO LIRING-3 CUBANS DO NOT TRUST KING AND

HAVE ASKED PANAMANIAN EXIREMISI ORGANIZATIONS BE CAREFIL IN DEALIESS

WITH HEP.• HOWEVER, RODRIGUEZ STATED TANAMANIAN LEFTIST ORGANIZATIOIS

FEEL KING USEFUL TO CERTAIN POIST, ALTHOUGH MANY MEMBERS FELL SHE

"PLAYiNG BOIN SIDES".

S. RODRIGUEZ STATE HE HOT MEMBER ANY ORGANIZATION, ALTHOUGH

HE FORMERLY IN PANAMANIAN OP. ME STATED HE AUTHORIZED BY "VARIOUS

EXTREMISIS GROUPS GO COSTA RICA ASD ESTABLISH CONTACT WITH.

PAMAMANIAN REFUGEE ERCUPS IHERE. RODRIGUEZ STATED "FATTION" MEXICAN

POPULAR SOCIALIST PARTY (PPS) HAD ALREADY SEI UP CONTACT FOR HIM IS

COSTA RICA TO ENABLE HIM OBTAIR ARMS THERE FOR SHIPKERT PANAMA.

60 LIRIÄG-3 INSTURCTED ALLON TURBER STAY WITH HiM, IF TURNER

AGREEABLE, AND TO USE OPPORTUNITY ATTEMPT LEARN PROGPESS TURNER'S

TALKS WITH CUBANS. LIRING-3 KILL ALSO AITEMPT LEARN UHO IN PPS. 18

CONTACT VITH RODRIGUEZ

•-..

SECRET

---

## Page 127

14-00000

CHESSNESS

• TOTAL COST

SECRE?

ROUTING AROIDS INTALS. SESA BY

NONAKCACOTT

not O re 0 no .

13

DISGIN VY

ACTIOM

DESTRON D SIG.

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY BEBE SECRET

7. DEFER TO ADDRESSEES ALY FORMAL DISSEM ABOVE INFORMATION.

LIRING-3 CONSIDEPED UNTEST SOURCE, WHO KHOWN BE IN CONTACT WITH

VARIOUS LEFTISI AND REVOLUTIOKARY FIGURES.

Do MEQUESI ANY REGUIREYENTS ADDRESSEES MAY HAVE FOR LIRING-3

USE IN CONVERSAIIONS WITH TURNER.

9.

80 INDEX. FILE: 58-322-1. CROSS REF TO 2B1'S INDICATED.

SECREI

SECRET

---

## Page 128

-ABLE SECRETARiAT DISSEMIMATIO

SIENES

40 marion

SECRET

PEJEOOUETON OF THIS COPY POSASTES

SONANCE CO

IBBURO

10

₴

х-кт то так по.-

піко В вт. т0

FRANcHO

DESTRON D BIG.

WN8

507

CAS: CAlpROp

SECRE I 28D04SZ JUN 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 2327

MEXI

PANAMA CITY, INFO DIRECTOR

PBRUMEN

28J0463 14 9 1 233

REF MEXICO CITY 8886) Dy 91228

1O IDENTITY: CARLOS (JURADO) DELMAR - MEXICAN ARTIST AND

POLITICAL ANARCHIST WHO IN COSTACT WITH VARIOUS OFFICIALS CUBAN

EMBASSY MEXICO CITY. HE ALSO IN CONTACT WITH VARIOUS MEXICAN

•AND GUATEMALAN LEFTISTS, INCLUDING MEBERS OF THE REBEL ARMED

FORCES (FAR) OF GUATEMALA.

2. NO INDEX. FILE 56-388-1.

SECRET

MICROFILMED

JUL 17 1959

DOC MICRO. SER.

AN PW

AB

?'s

3X

4

WHl!

5201-3373

-

8201 - 48383

8201-306789

ES COPY

SECRET

201-798301

28 JUN 69

---

## Page 129

1,4.00000

CILE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

PERSON'URIT NOTIFIED

ZONANCE COFY D ISSUED

O. ASSIFIE

SECRET

O SLOTTED L

REPRODUETIDA SE

D*18

= SPIES S

OUTING NOSOR

52.7194

COPS TICMIBNTES

DISSEN BY.

ACTISA UN

M/1 8

LE FILE. VR.

5631

SECRET 192233Z JUN 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 12658:

HZP

AK5,

Mexi

PAÑATA CITY INFO CIRECTOR, GUATE"ALA CITY

REF A. MEXICO CITY 2389 667732)

3P

B. PANAMA CITY 8258 @ 68597)

C. HZPA i152S

Ja69 IN85321

.."

1. ON 16 JUNE

LIRING- 3 IDENTIFIED PHOTO OF LELIS AÑADEC

(RODRIGUEZ) ANGULO (241-386759) FORKARDED REF CAS ALADZO

AD

PODRIGUEZ KHOWN TO HIM.

2. LIRING 3 CURRENTLY ATTEMPTING ARRACE FOR RODRIGUEZ GET

FINANCIAL ASSISTAÏCE FROM CENTRO IRTERCULTURAL DE DOCUMENT ACION

P3

b':

D2811F0

(CIDOC), HEADED BY FATHER IVAN ILLICH 6221-3278332 AND LOCATED

QUERLAVACA, MEXICO. LIRING-3 SPOKE WITH PERSONAL FRIEND CARMEN

201.14.3911

ELISA, LESTIST WHO WORKS CIDOC,) AND POLISA PROMISED ATTEMPT HELP

RODRIGUSZ. LIRING 3 FOLLOWED SUGGESTICE VALLACE P. ROWIGN AND TOLD

RODRIGUEZ PREPARE DETAILED PAPER ON REVOLUTICNAY SITUATION PANAÑA,

FOR WHICH HE COULD BE PAID BY CIDOC. (PODRIGUEZ CLAIMS REEUS

MONEY TO TRAVEL COSTA RICA., RODRIGUEZ TO DATE NOT KNOWS TO HAVE

MADE ANY OTHER FRUITFUL CONTACTS AMONG LOCAL REVOLUTIOÑARIES..

3. LIRI:G-3 PREPARED ASK RODRIGUEZ GUESTIONS ABOUT REVOLUTIONARY

SITUATION PANAMA.

EASED RODRIGUEZ® PAPER. REGUEST ANY REGUIREMENTS AND

MICROFILMED

AUG 1 4 1969

DOC, MICRO. BER

SECRET

Is corY

8 201-306159

119 June 68

201-798301

---

## Page 130

CLISSIFIED MESSAGE

"SECRET: * 8533/

_ PACE ¾2

JiM 25 & 3784'69

::ED

CUIPaCE AjAYA CITY MAï HAVE TO BE FASSED LIRING 3 FOR USE IS CO!-

VE 34916i0I WITH RODRIGUEZ.

3. INDEX MOLINA. FILE: 56-4-108. CROSS REE TO 201'S INDICATED.

SECREI

[SECRET:

---

