# 104-10220-10002

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10220-10002

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUANTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMJITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUBBER/VOLUNE:

NEWTON, WILLUM I.

_C- 56216

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

_C1/07

ROON: -

DELETIONS, IP AIY:.

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

"OT PEVIEWED BY HISCA'

20063

NO DOCUNENTS NAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

4-00000

SECRET

(sher

1111nd 10)

DATE

CASE

по.

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

processing Section

PLEASE TARE

THE FOLLOWING

(APOSTO ChOCA "RONOrdA"

AC-T+ON

OM

SET UP PORI

CASE

SONTH AHOVE.

ДОЛ ПІТНЯ

В с 10 Đ0

SET UP

1001

ISSUR OPERATIONAL APPROVAR

ISSUE

•OVISIONAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

STILE

OUTSTANDING

PORDARO ATTACMMENY TO DIVISION

FORMARO ATTACHMINT TO SECURITY

потуся!

109

PASPARE CANCALLATION

SEMO TO RIVARCHIVES

1118

ENTEND POA YON

DAYS UNTIL

REGURDT NI TRACES

REOUTES

DRIRATIONAL O DIV.

TRACES

REGUES!

DIBLO TRAÇES

ABQUABT

Воо.

=J.00 1.

REQUISY ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIE INFO

HEQUEST COLEN LIST

PUAMSBA GRELA LIST IMPONMATION

AROUBET ARRULTE OF TECH. INTERMOGATION.

DEMO "OUCAY" PERRO TO DIVISION

отнея (B00 Romar»»)

707

+08-776-2317 Ssr le ténnes

SECRET

1218

---

## Page 3

SECRET :

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

NEWTON, William J.

C-56246

1. The Chief, CI/QA, la hereby advised that the PP/C/UWG

has no: further present intereet in the aubject individual.

2. PP/C/UWG wishes to express appreciation for the promps

assistance rendered by C/CI/OA on thia casè.; It was especially

advantageous in view of the short time with which contact associated

with the subject was available.

Tarold D.

Beh

Chief

Unconventional Warfare Group, PP Staff

CANCELLED

Fro 2 6 1958

COPY TO SECURITY

Enc

FEB 21

2 26 PH 58

SECRET

22732

---

## Page 4

4-00000

SECRET :

19 February 1958

ATXERFIONS

HT. 80818

HOWTON, 1222125 3.

0-56866

2. Raference 10 nado to gour request dated 6 JanUary 1958

for a Proviaional Oporational Approval for subjeot.

Loes a reply 1s raneirod fraa you within thirty days, ta10 coas

vill be closad and tha silo forestded to RI/ Arabired.

ТВОИБ (

ali...

Cases, F/01

08/02/40308

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT

SEMAN LE FiT

AND : * ACOMAL ORDER)

ALIASES.

VARIANI SPELLIMGS, CIC MUMBLAS, ETC.

BIRTH

28

8 JulY 19559.24

BIRTH PLACE

Orlondo, Florida

so crie tallin o

Undead States

в.

PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

NOB WOTKING.

Middlo Last to obtain aircraft

pilot Job. any company.

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATICA

Aircrali Pilot

RE SONSE TO GREEN 41S5

REQUEST NO.

& January

DATE OF REQUISI

REQUEST FRAM

MAMI OF ORIGIMAI:NÜ OFFICER

OFFICE DESIGMAION PP/UWG

POOM, BUILDING 2403 K

EXTENSION $237

18. WAS CONTINUINE SEAREN RECWESTEDR

= 10

IX TYPE OF REQUEST

• FIRST TIME SUBNITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

COVER

NAWE

1E. INTEREST IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

X OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

ОТМЕЯ

17.

IMFORMATION REQUIRED

LOCATION

RAYE

$

LOCATION

DATES

B. MILITARY SERVICE

Unkno wa

PAST OCCUPATICOS

ACTIVITY

Pilot with BIltlad Trans-Fast

Pilot with

ALT

Force durdug Egyptian

hostilitos

(elalmad by subjoct)

1"..

• ...

?."

(HAIR) =:.. (RACE)

10. DESCRIPTION

(HE"ONT)

(MEIGHT)

(EYES)

11. SPOUSE (IF MIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

Divorced

• no date

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF INKEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

jebildron

13. OTHER SIGRIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

Unknots

(OTHER)

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS MEN NEEDEO

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON:

FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TOFUD.

SEE CS1-10-7

• 8, 508 016

SECRET

108

USED.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

TO: TGRode1

FROM: 51/0 %

2 vanuary 1258-

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/GIO BIOSHLPHIE FILES.

В.

A MEMDRANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

c. d

MITM THE LIMITEO IDENTIFICATION PHOVIDED IN THE REQUEST,

STO IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE MMETHER THERE IS INFOPMATION

ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D.

FI/STE HAS NO PERTINENT INFOPMATION GA SUBJECT. IF A

CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTLO IN SECTION

14.

INFOTMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU

AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPAREMTLY THE SUBJECT OF

THE

FOLLONING:

To havo a security Offico request on subject.

The following New York Iling Articles refer to tho Subjects

«..

11 Aug 50, 39610000.2:

17 Aug

50,

&:l.

31 AUB

50,

2 Feb

51,

15:1.

6:2.

MOTE TO THE ORIGIMATING OFFICE

ri:?

-ді•;

WHEN THE SUBJEGT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, 'WITH.

THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION MOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE

SENT TO FIISTD.:.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/STO THE SHEETS

FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT

INTEREST

TO DEMAND A CONTINUING

NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO MOT TIE UP FIISTD'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES

FOR INFORMATION THAT IS HOT REQUIRED.:

TO:::

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

MAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOK.

BUILDING

-

EXTERSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

70

APPROVAL REQUEST

Deputy Diroccor of Scouriiy

**" Didro

FROM

Chief,

and Support Division

C-56246

SUBJECT :

но.

153126

TYPE

REQUEAT

1...

=.

INDICES RESULTE

REQUISTED OY

Jins

Ao Soon As Possiblo

S. AREA DI SUDDECT'S ASSIONHENT

A. UIS DA SUOJACT

Contaot and Assesamant

INvESTIGATION MOT

tO RIVAL• INTrI

ГАТЕ

6 Janary 1950

PROJECT

ar (Da10)

MITHOO OF MAMOLIME

•R010IPE

BOUTIRE

POI CHECK

REQUESTED

la Soon A8 Poso1ble

COVER SUGGESTEO

PIELO TRACES

TRACKS

ATTACHMENTS'

КАЖАЯЛЯ

LIsT iNITIATIO

20ти

P.C

10

EXPEDITE

CI/OA Suvise3-

Data_

tomes si u

500 88

693

---

## Page 8

14-00000

6 January 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/ OA

ATTENTION:

T. Carroll

SUBJECT:

Request for POA

It is requested that POA bo furnished on

tho following individual for contact and

aasessment

with a view of the Agency'a use of this Individual

in tho diold:

William Jesale Nowton

jr.

Born: Orlando, Florida, 28 July 1921

2. It would be approciated if this POA

could be expedited in as much as il la anticapated

that a mooring will bo held & January 1958 with

regard to contact with this individual.

Desmond FitzGerald

Chiot

Psychological and Paramilitary Stall

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CHIFF. CI/02

SUBiNET.

raut

ané (panudo or

U1l11an J. Forton

сілод но.

6-56846

GATE CP DIETN

28 July 1924

ACASONIDI TOR CANCELLATION

bill not be employod.

SECRET

(8941 86110189)

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION OF APPROVAL

FRON

PR Als starS

10 1100 07

1r0a 9000)

PROJECT

JBORKED

PLACE OF BINTH

orlando, Pla.

Dlotr1but10ns

Addiessoo a Celg. & l ec.

FE/AIR

• 1 ce.

CH

• 1 co.

AGENT'S PLAVICE RECORR IN (NIPACHON) (VILI De lorpardod):

NA

in sUBJeCT IS USED IN anY CAPACITY.

A MIO RIGURST POR APPROVAL

40.937

SECRET

30 JAnUAry 1957

¡ 38 PA 57

1881

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CIA INTERMAL USE ONLY

SECRET

PERSONALITY A30+T FILE REQUEST

Dary lou 5T

c = 1eato

TO

RI/ARISCIO SECTION

FROM

CI DA

ноом но.

ІНІОРМОНЕ

INSTRUCTIONS:

(inclusing

От о порог

201 Ababar

ond onaplo1

SECTION 111: to ba

10041180

+100-980818149

N6 598, N1211NJ

хот то.

424

RIVANALYSIS

DESTROYED

MACHINE

SECTION

DOUNCE

ferrars

UPORA RECHIPT

LISTING

""Piana"""

OCCIPOS. COOR

SECTION 1D

PSEUDOMYN

5E2466

SECTION III

11.

DRO COUNTRY INTERROR 18.

IDO COUNTRY INTRAROT

$ да.

COMMENTOI ECSATICTOD CIOL TOLDEN IN EDI TALIS:

Monoritato

SEP 26 1957

pionatuRe

1801.

: N2"8. 831 v86202/1008

ADITICAS.

SECRET

CIA INTERMAL USE ONLY

1 800

---

## Page 11

4-00000

SI CAL

MEROBANDUN FOR:

PE/DEB SWURKED

23 SAA 8559

C1/0p91911on91 Approval and Suppore D1:1810n

SULJECT:

Your request dated, →=30.805.1956

10091e596

to use ena SubjACE han

cech procasued

tho urtion of Securlay.

2. Tha revulso of this action are tranomitted nerowith.

vant to continuo your inioroot in Subicot.

Attachment:

SO MINO 20 San 19580 20

d.!.

D108s1butIon:

1 Addresse

1 8116

SECRET

030U 09. 396

07-00

101.0 10 0000a090

108D

---

## Page 12

14-00000

T6:

Fnceissing Saetion

SECRET

dollod

INSTRUCTION SHEET

1/19/57

PLEASA

I FAKE THF

TINTINTRE, ACTION DA TRE CASE SET TONIRI AROVE.

(Alanpo thaad dHonardoo beloo loe dearloprans de 101a01o)

CASA NO.

C-56246

SET UP YDR:

*0 1

wiTh.

apr6lt.1990011

BAT UFTORI

ISSUT OPIGAYIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIGNAL

OPATATIONAL APFROVAL

Tntasttaaddon bIrle turatarbiNG

PORDARD ATTACHMINTI TO SECURIIY

MOTICEL.

PAEPARA CANCRLLATION PORM

SEMO TO RIIAACHIYES

FILR

EXTEMO POA FOR

N390

[j***

DAYS UMPIL

PeevIa

REQUEJY DI TRACEA

?e0ea1

THACES

REOULST

EIELD PRACES

AEQUEST

ASUUEST ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIS INPO

REGUEST GREEM LIST

FURNISH GREEN LI8T IAPORMATION

REQURST RESULTS ON TECH. INTERROGATION

SEMO "OUCAY" MEMO TO OIVISION

OrMEA (Soe Readrdo)

d want to continie

your intereat in Duljice?

80. 707

SECRET

1808

---

## Page 13

14-00000

÷ 50293.

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Chirt, Ci/OA

DATES

1 U JAN 1957

FROM &

Donuty Direcior of Security (Investlantions ind Sunnort)

SUNJECT:

G-56246

F1:3126

1. Rolorenco l10 mile to your nchornnaus daled 30 Norenbor

1956 rheroin a Provisional Corert Secilty Apricia und a Covere aj

Seeirity Approvil vere iccuerted for incini evniuntion and orloy-

rent of Subject under ProJect IMILi/JEGRID.

2.

Your

attontion le directed to infornation stallable to

your offlee located in RI file $200-7-32-66 Which In the result of

TEI Invostiention dated 26 October 1943 under Subject's name.

In:

short, this file roflects inforrution recarding Sanjoct's intero:t

1E, supathy for,

and recrultment by the Jerisà Zionist novement.

Fis recruitment ac r flihter pilot md undercover min in Pilestine

nas corninated on 12 My 1748 due to tho fnet that ho uno arrested

on the Sullivan Act In Hew York City on that ante.

Additionally,

RI f1l0 $201-1424 conteins PPI reports dated in

1950 and 1951 wherein

onestionilo infornatior regradine: Subjoctis activities and ment'l

competence la set forth.

Sover?:

In tlew of the information set forth above, a Protialoral

Security Approval

cannot be granted prior to completion of

extensite inquiries in this case.

In light of the highly questionable

Inforantion ao set forth 1n RI BouCos, It 1a roouested that the

interosted divialon five due conclueration en to the fesaib1l1ty of

continuing interent in retaining Subject's servicos.

Pendine your

adrice as to the continuesce of the division's

Interest la this cose, no further notion la contempinted by thle

otice.

JOR THE DIFICIOR OF SECURITY:

Ken.

contacted

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

Frilod In:

DA!T

IT liest

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEEY

Processing Section

PLEASE

TAKE THE FOLLOMING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH ANUVE.

(Alnoyo chard "Racordon boloo lor propationo de Jalaila)

BET UP TORI

РОЛ ПІТА.

181980188

9UT UP FORI

D...

LJ...

IASUR OPIRATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

INVESTIGATION

STILL DUTSTANOINO

FORMARO ATTACHMEMT TO DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMEAT TO SECURITY

MOTICE:

PREPARE CANCELLATION PONM

SEND TO RIPARCHIVES '

P1L8

EXTEMO PJA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REMARRSE

ARONEST DI TRACKS

REQURYT

OPERATIONAL A DIV. TRACES

REVIEST FIELD TRACES

REONEST

Тa..

D.nо..

REDiESE ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIC INTO

MEQUEST CAREM LIST

FURMISH GREEN LIST IMFORMATION

ACOURST RESULTS OR TECH, INTERRODATION

SENO "OUERY" MEMO TO DIVISION

OTHER (Soo Romacho)

Send Vast t S0

cren

1 510 s6

но. 707 .

•Ise she is ste nee to theatre for t

SECRET

188)

---

## Page 15

14-00000

10 DeCenis 1950

MENORANDUM FOR: Criset, CI/0A

SUBJECT:

C-56246.

2ri1-1ui32

1.

Transaltes herewill 10 two .coples or additional

B1o3raphle Information, Juut reculved 1n this Divialon ou

the avoid cubject.

It 10 regreated that one cout of the 110rraphle

Information be forueried to Os/SUD, attentior: 1r. Curllo

Nestersy.

125 Relier

ALFIED

JR.

Chles, Far Fast Ilv1810n

Distribution:

Addressco - 0r1g. & 1 cc.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

WIL AM TRANSPORT

Data teastrad

7=1. No.-

PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT W...U..!

APPLICATION FOR RAPIOYMENT

Date of Argiliarion

Aprach phorograph lakon

within parl 18 months.

1a. Name in full:

14. in Male larquest

COPY 3-12/7/56

(1.a0t)

NEWTON,

(Firall

Won.

Inatruelinna

Type or priat

20.. Nano as bires, il jurtoront frum abovo

Ja. Marital Scarus

all anators.

All queattona

1J Singla

suat bo anemoral fully.

11

2o. Mave you ever soon andon by any isthor names

I Married

auficione suaro has not broi

provicted

complole your an.

y No

3b. O Widowed

amar undor llain 38 or on a

Il anator is "f'co", siro nomo, time, place and elrumacances

UJ Virurcad

separata pago.

under Ilom Na 10

I Hoparoled

da.

Present Ailmas and Tolophone No.:

db.

Parmanent home arreas ant Tolophono No.:

2134 North Lanor Streot

Samo as in lu Immediatoly predeeding

Purbank, California

8. Date of birth (Month, day, year)

Ser

H.

Height

.

H'alsht

July 28, 1924

Armala

in.

10020.

(.) tomalo

a Plate of biren Tries, rountryi

10. Color ut cyou

11, Colur of hair

12.

compleston

Orlando, Florido, VISA

Hrown and Grey

Falr

18, Describo any apocial or outstanding characterlatics or identifying marka.

16. PREVIOUS ADDRESSES DURING PAST TEN Y BAKS

City

Country

From

1946

TO

1950

112 North Maple Streck

1950

1956

-Husbankerellie..

ISA

2134 North Laner Street

Burbank, Call.

USA

15.

Lot each country of which you have boon a citizen tiring dales and

manner of acquiairion at each citizenahip.

How Citizenship was Acquired

July ?êe 1

1924

USA

Etrth.

10

Passport

leouing autborisy

ÜS Dept." or State

Dace of lague

Partieulars

1950 plus too.

Valid for countries

All but Rod FloC:

T7.

Social Security Na

Labour Inauranco Nà

[Citizen Certificale Nä

562 30 0266

18.

WIFE-CHILDREN (Include f'ror Marriages)

NAME

DATE UP BIRTH

Dorothy Webor Newton

Febo 24e 1930

Sane as applicantia

Home Economiat

Danse Anne Newton

NoT. 121. 1948

Student

Jent Aurora lerton

Feb. 17a 1950

Stedent

Motra Jeanno Newton

Oct. 22, 1°53

77-

House-wrocker (7)

19. (0) FATHER'S NAME

lenton, he.

.

(Sr.)

(d) PRESENT ADRESS

Decedged

(8)

NATIONALITI AT BIRTH

USA

20. (a)

MOTHER'S NAME

Gladys Vera Nerton noe Snead

(d) PRESENT ADDRESS

Dosaazed

SIGNET

(8) NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

09A

DEIATI

ID DATE OF BIRTH (C) PLACE OF BIRTH (COY, COURTy)

1.900

1e)

PRESENT OFCUPATION

Telfeir Coe cecrede, USA

DecoBrod

LE PRESENT NATIONALITY

L'SA

(b) DATE OF BIRTH

190L

(6) PLACE OF BIRIH (City, Country)

Taripa, FlorIda, USA

(0). PRESENT OCCUPATION

Decassed

18) PRESENT NATIONA'ITY

to chorator taralad

---

## Page 17

- ugling sion."

so bod's any couns ¿ ilisA, Far tani, drel men liod

Maria al dras or includinal

Bualness or verspatia

28. l.ai all Mhar porsonal conlecia nos alinado liond shore, dub qui me, too. any munir disa tar Esse, die;

Indicate relationahip or inconodo ul sequainianso

Relalune?

3.12131

None

herman dia decade earrot o a ron hell are to cited or s

No

''areiar la "'er" sita full dolaila undor lem No. 89.

Mato you ared been arrested or dataliad by

any polles or milicary authorityl li so bante the arresling aotharity, siro

Ume, plaro and reason sur sueb arrao! or delention, aná lie die;sition or couri action undor leen 39

Se PerEn do Dolity In case ul arnergoney:

Same on sunilea

Mro. Dorothy l. Newton

HomesThornwal12-7095

ut Water river

laa this apare lor completina anamoro to any of the foregorre artiona nunharina anarera du correland with quasilans.

Cu9: 614205-13t.296

It nevarary use peera angola of pager to garge also 9o 1519 coa

ee ne polne l turther elaborating dra. dis loris

coen ly boluone vaild "last

ala suntha firat Class US LAs chysical criricote wish no salvera and Canadian (ICAU)

Grade I Physical (of oix praden)

Any Acticional Intortration uble you asay wist to did:

The applicant 1s voll mare that the work recom nerein pour Lack

but one year.

plad to furnish

the compary an exhoustive account of my employment back to 1935 son 1

from an orphanage.

There 18 little purpose to be served in this, hovever,

I bald a position for longer than one year (1.k.:

a contract uiti, Flota

Aerea Mercante de Assentina 149-'50).

no way that I can deny an obrious tact:

I seen a poor riat

for consideration as a permanent employee.

Yet time has traunatically

cured me of "get richbuick"

schemes and I'll not be easy prey of anyone in the Orlent

who holds out an extra hundred a month as bait.

1n accutely suare that I'm 32.

old to be a co-pilot in most countries and unions, seniority rights, ot ol,

are gradually

procluding ay hiring out as captain.

CAT sisy be my last chanco for a fina job.

11 you do hire me and I do leave, for uriatever reason, there will bo l1tele

doubt in the minds of those concerned but tia: I will have done my beat.

CANTIFICATE OF CORECTNEES

Dals Slatesant 0u elia Applicacion is Causo 1u: l'erminetion.

I DO SOLEMNLY AFFIRM THAT THE INFORMATIO: GLUTAINED BLARIN IS CONHECT.

Norgaber 1l, 1956.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

traindon

NAME

HORO

Inted i ra tired to +9455-8-k4478;i sides

a1.

ASLATIONSHIP SETIOYALITY USUPATION/

88.

Liat any ciose relatires

(father, mother, brother, sister, husband, vito, children) who aro emplayrd by any agoDey of

any natiunal or any local gurernment.

Name

Rolationship

Name and addrons of government arency

Nono

83. Languages (Name and indicato the extont of jour rompetenco, l.a., Excollent, Guod, Fair)

(a) Language

Tbi pink

(s) Head

(d) Writs

10) Understand

Spanish

Good

Good

Good

Good

Ruastan

Fatr

Exar

Fatr

Fair

Arable.

2d.

FAIr

Fair.

Vocational qualicatione (Licence, certicate sle): Merchant Marinor'e documents (Deck) i CAl Licee erc.

80.

ense and Carted salaa, in the

Únicod Scales, place uf readenco in thio Uniled Staion aid the dale and pors ul departuro

Country

Purpoor

У гом

North, South & Contral

1938-

AmerIcaL EuropaL A8101

2056

ireed tercode dl Merchant seameR,

ag pilot.

Africal Augtralia: oto.

88.

Henribership

Lial societies, associations, clubs and other organisatlona of shied you are now or hate boon a marbor.

Veterans of Foralen lirael So. Cal. Soaring losn.j Burbank H1110 & Plotal Club, Vodenta

Society:

19.

Mit for a rough all and eat rene, it free even f coiro, unis or arseniacion, apa

USN

'38 to 'W, 1/S to LE. (18) NA, medically surveyed and retired due to woundo 1a action.

USAF "LE tO 'RE ORDE dA M/SIT and HORe DieSe 3a M/SOT In sOlaAaR el entreçod p12012.

SNUCATION

Namas and Localiass al Sacondary and Highar

Datas 11canded

Degrees

Major Subfact

Educalional Instituliana Alloadad

•Froen

H1nk scheel delona haroses us Anged

hool: 78 undta conplated USAFI ai

one year (39 unita at USC Soh. of Aeroe

3940

1947

Santa Matia

e Calls.

None

dero. Eage

JULI

---

## Page 19

14-00000

E0. ESPLOTMANT

Dals el retatigment (Meath, pess)

138. '55

To Present Trona

Out of I BiR k. YRML

Uns Conunrialto Stood ll serenary.

Es ael lillo of your poettl

Bauary or carplaga

Fune Lance flying with

vArioue non-sceds on

Marting $ AYRTARO

рах тр.

CAHs and Ford Motor Cos

Final & Sec per aidan.

porta dieperaal contract

Duttes

Flyine captain and rebarto on Collo

гевотто он DС-48.

In preor to pat rogularly

Vales al espirjeeat (Moals, paar)

pres: Seb. '56

Tos Aug, '56.

Trees lillo of your popilos

Pree lanco flying with

Pal 1500 plus Rs. 1/8

Indian non-sceda de ruleritarina 2000 plan R8. 20/0

to a21ng C-lans for

Eases at Colcutta

Terry Panäptiär/Dun Dus.

Frank Lonze lan Boodrtoe Adage, "Shoks" Make

FlyIne CAptAin DC-38 Masan Valley Juring

Ronera for desiraa to chango angularsisid

the sonsoon season, food-dropping Napa Hill

Lara pren shul Mith fungus.

and Himalayaa, Capt. PEYSA Calcutta/Andanar

Doves of diariagearl (Mosle, year)

Exact lillo of gour posilton

Salary

or earningo

Canadian 8600 plue 85 over 10.

Press, Got '55

To FeD. '56

Captain l Copilot.

Brarting &

Nessa ped Altreas el Ereployanons

Carsal an 8950 plua Soner 60

par yr.

irandation icapary of Canado, Probleher, BarfIne Ioland, Copeda

Nasso and tilla ol lursadlato supartso.

Jones of MCA on DaW-line/Krasat es MA en M11 Canada Mon Co-Pilot on Auro Yorks and DC-La

Harao los desirtas to chango employmaat

Mou captain on C-ufs on DEW-lino. Fon capt

Broken Art

DC-38 (ak1-equipped) & PBI5As on MId-Canada

Al. Have pos over boas dischargad os latcod to resign los misconduct or unsalialectory sortles from any positios?

Yes

No 1

11 anster la "Yea" atra full deraila ander Ilam Na 89.

Il dob appilad lor:

Dow or over had isy phyadeal do

(e) Have you ones had taber

traalment los a manlal of erso.

Y en

No

Y en

No

1) Whats to salt 18 monthe, hate you frequenly te

vodkatine. tonorages io exoon

(o) Were you over medically or disbotorably discharged from

the armand forces?

No.

Yo X for aforeagla vounda

(1) Is açy al poser arrero do Any al the abone to "You" dive fall particulara andor lears 89.

28

Maxio

Occupation

Donald 7. Hesec - Chie! Tinsport Pilot, North Anerleen Aviation Corp.

---

## Page 20

10

Atta

FROM

SUBJECT:

...

SECRET

Pillad tas

REQUEST FOR IMVESTIGATION AND (OR) MAME CHECK

Deputy Director of Security

B121 Mulion - 2041 I

Chief, Cl/Operitional Approval

and Support Dirision

56245

YET OF ACQUEST

TRO Or

DA 18

PROJECT

30 Nor 1256

JBOREED

P. ME.PHOO. 01

CHECK

AF, QUESTED

or (Daro)

- EXAN

USE

SUMJIC!

CorneraLaL HETLIA Employoo

IMYESRIRATIOM MOT DO PRICAL• INTERROT OF

DONEONUIAI

8, AESULTS Of TRACES

РІЗЬО ГЛАСЛЯ

Will be ford whon rood.

RI TRACRO

080801

18.

blog.

80o Mono 30 Hor 1956 and attachment no. 1.

IMVESTIGATIOH

3 COMMEOCIAL

TIATIO

80

se

693 USE PaCHIOUS ADIYIONS.

•... м ін

... ...=:.

SECRET

- Minor ou

188

---

## Page 21

22533

SECRET

(89, 00 51110819)

0A9t

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND

APPROYAL

30 wrother 1056

PNOTTI

10:

CI/Opera: lonal Approval und Support

DIVIEÍON

FROM:

SUBJECT

CHOA FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

THUS MANE

W1 211an J. lienton 2A

LIPTONYM DR PSRUGONYM

TPT OF DOENT ON TUROYIE

USL OF AGENI OR EMPLOYEE (PUll deRaNTO = SPOOle COUNCY Ol COOlARaRN)

Jes Attackent #2

Regurated TIMI 7129, 2y liovember 1956

APPEOVAL

WADE

CHECK

SPICIAL

'InGusar (so flold incorridation)

Will be forwarded when receivedPRo aMD

OR

«CUIVALENT.

\re 37146428.

OBTAINADLE

ІМПОРМАТІМ

ATTACHED

COVERAMENT

COMMERCIAL

RI TRACES

TYPE ACTION REQUESTEO

T%

PMOVISIONA COVINE SECURITY APPADVAL

COVEAT

SECUHITY

APPROVAL

OPRIETARY

APPROVAL

OTHERI

GREEN

LIST STATUS

400 11 mILL

FURNAMORO WHEN RECEIVEO

CHERN LINT CUPCA HAS AREN INITIATED

FIELD

TRACES

X"ILL DE POMMAMORO UNEM RECEINED

NOT INITIATED.

NUY EXPECTIO TO POSSESS RELEVANT INTO.

SUGGESTED

_INVESTIGATIVE COULA

ACADEMIC

OTHERI

allach

пиплату)

RECORD

DEROGATORY"

I NON.

DEROGATORT

NO RECORD

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS ON IMVESTIGATION OR SPRCIAL

DIVISION TRACES (•11 dOTOgAOry DeRACA DUMancy)

ormodaroar!

моч.

DEROGATORY

NO RECORD

RECORD

COVERACE DESIRED

SUBJECT

X

SIGNATURE OR CASE

Allele. Haman

FORM NO.

1 Auo se 772 :

cc: DD/ S/CV

ENTENSIDA

232:

SECRET

181

and.

---

## Page 22

5-8-1-1-2-8

Dive: 30 Hoverber 1256_

Artactusent ic. !

1. It In regisled tire pronisional Covert securit

Approval end a covert security approvel le granted to permit

the une or kI. denton as follows

B. No pair. as ar air ire nesber abriser FBLiKA

airerft raitoning flights st a sereitir rature within

the controlled aress of thn Pur East rod Sniciena% Asia-

To sa:ve as en Eir CreW meziber silcil.-1 fBIlKA

aIrcraNt en tilisists of a serestive nature pucaids the

controlled smas, 1.0., overtiigats ir 1be jar Bist ard

Southic.Et Aila.

So he mide vitting of certain cantatine ectiritles

Insofar do abay purtlo to the plight opariulona departurent.

To assist, 15 called 1p0a Irom tiss to tine, In the

preparation oi suasitive operations.

.., To be esic vitting of a U.S. Gortentent ars/or

pency Interest In MBILiA 1n the event 1t becamas

operationall acersary.

8-8-С-R-5-T

---

