# 104-10408-10417

## Page 1

1222d

1104-10408-10417

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Frecuti:" Ragistry

168-5160

Oilice of thie Director Generals

COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA:

AUSTRALIAN-SECURITY INTELLIGENCE ORGANISATION)

- G.P.O. BOX NO. 5105BB,

- MELBOURNE)

10510

15 October, 1968.

Dear Dich

Your Melbourne Station has sought my views

on the possibility of declassifying a Warren Commission

document in which reference is made to the. "Australian)

security servicel. The document in question is @D:97))

dated 22nd May, 1964, together with

an attachment dated

[29th November, 1963.

I would recommend. strongly that CD.971 and

its attachment should not on any account be

declassified or

publicly released for reasons which include the following

(i)

It has

never been officially stated that there

is a "C.l.A. Canberra Station" or that

there are C.l.A.. officers in Australia.

This has been avoided as a point of policy.

(ii)

Publication of these facts would invoke a

spate of questions by the Press and in this;

‹Parliament, which would be contrary to the

national security interest, for example :

(a) Who

approved the establishment of

the "C.l.A. ¡Canberra› Station"?

(b) What is its composition and location?

(c) What is its purpose in Australia?

(Allegations have already been made

that C.l.A. is interiering in Aust

(ralian domestic affairs.)

With what Australian agencies does it

deal?

(4.5.T.5., which has not been

publicly disclosed, could be brought

into discussion.)

(e) With what other foreign agencies does the

A.S.I.O. deal?

(1)

What Ministerial/ control is there over

such dealings?

A0O0A1

711892-48

---

## Page 2

13-00000

"SECRET

2.

(iii)

Questions could be raised as to the investigation

by the A. Sal. 0. of the anonymous telephone

calls, the validity of its quoted conclusion and

the result of its further enquiries.

Station.

I am giving a copy of this letter to your Melbourne

With kindest regards and best wishes.

Yours camel

Clears Pay

(C. C. F. Spry.)

Richard Helms, (Esg.),

Director,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washingion, D.С., 20505,

United States of America.

---

