# 104-10071-10101

## Page 1

AAAAI

104-10071-1010

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-DISPATCH

SECRET IT

-TO

Chief, WOMUSE

# INFD.

Chief, European Division

FROM

SUBEC MH CHAOS

Chief of Station, Ottaw lif

Congress Of Black Writers Conference in Montreal

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: FYI

Reference: OTTAWA 5648, 20 September 1968

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

¡NO INDEXING REQUIRES

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

I CAN JUDGE INDEXING

¡MICROFILM

Attached is a SMABOVE report which is further to Reference.

Reference was based on SMABOVE'S letter of 18 September which is

mentioned in paragraph 2 of the attached report. The attached

report is for WOFIRM only. SMABOVE has given the report to LNERGO

also, and asks that we not take any

action which might jeopardize

their source.

Hellat

Henry D. MCCLACKION

Attachment: H/W

As Stated

Distribution:

? - Chief. wOMsE w/att h/w

- Chief,

EUR w/att h/w

CROSS REFERENCE 10

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OC0A-13493

DATE

seizani sitt

7539

27 September 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

14:00000

september 19, 1968 a rell

Ecdert Martin

Labour League (Ligue

cel socialiste

montreal, quebec

e source advised that.

menber of the socialist

Ouvriere) (1.5.0. - Trotskyist.

had received

a leaflet on the Congress

of

Black writers Conference

scheduled to

be held at the stephen Leacock Blag.,

and the student

Union

Bldg.,

McG1l1 University, Montreal, que.,

IIon October 11 to

October 14,

19€8.

The leaflet

outlined

the program of the Conference

to be dedicated to the late Rev. Martin Luther KING and Malcolm X,

as followss

Cost of Registration: $4.00

Program:

Towards the Second Emancipation of the Dynamics of

Black Liberation.

1.

Origins and Consequences of the Black-white Conference

with C.L.R. JAMES and Alvin POUSSIN.

2.

The "Terms" of the Modern Black Awareness with C.J.3.

JANES and Bobert BILL.

3.

Be-evaluation from the Past - (in French) by rene

DEPESTRE.

4. Civilizations of Ancient ifrica by Richard MOORE.

5. Contribution of the Afro-American and imerican to

American History in Civilization by Leror JONES.

t. Racial Discrimination 1n Britain by Richard SMalL.

?. an Evening of Soul Music.

8. Black Power in U.S. by Stokley CARMICHAEL.

9.

Black Revolution 3rd World Capitalism by. Eldridge

CLEAVER and James FOREMAN.

10.

3 Hours fui ñesolutions.

Editorial:

"It 1s in this context, this Congress of Black Writers

hopes to make its contribution.

Here for the lst time in Canada an

attembt will be made to recall, in a series of popular lectures by

vast scholars, artists and politicians, the history which te have

been taught to forget.

The history,

the Blackman's own response,

in thought

New world., and in

action to the conditions of his existence in the

List of Names:

C.L.R. JAMES, Negro; Alvin POUSSIN; Robert HILL,

Jamaleen;

Rone DEPESTRE, Maltian; Richarà MOORE, from Barbados;

LerOI JONES; Richard SMALI, Jamaican; Stokley CARMICHAEL,

Eldridge CLEAVER from Little Rock,

Arkansas; James FOREMAN; and

ROCKY JONES from

Truro, Nova Scotia.

2.

JONES, CAPMICHAEL,

and CLEAVER were mentioned

In our letter of September 18,

1968

concerning this Conference.

James FOREMAN is believed identical

to James FORMAN, an executive member of the student Non-Violence

Co-ordinattag Committee in the United States.

tie have no

identifiable reference on Richard SMAlL.

RocKy JONES, identical

to Burnley allan JONES of Fialifax, Nova

scotia,

is a prominent

Canadian nilitant leader and organizer in the Halifax Negro

community.

---

