# 104-10187-10110

## Page 1

4-0000р

104-10187-10110

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TOTAL COP188

SECREY

Co..

АГРНОЗСТІЛО РИСЛІТО

111345

SECRET aS2139

PRICRITY DIS CITE SALV SOCI

WH Dir

CURT, CUCAN PERECTOR

1N-82908

255E0T.64

Pare do

- 24

E.

52599

CHOFFIER

CIA OFFICER

1. IN ACCORDANCE

RETS FEW AND ENE NET MIEASANUANING

CIA OFFICER

CUBAN TARGET

DE SEPTENDER IN.

GUS OFFICE TO BRIEF KIMON MESS RECRUITIENT,

PORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS.

SWAS NUCH INPRESS-

LS AND AGREED ENPHATICALLY ONLY HE ANDEPRESIDEND WOULD INO:

LECRUITMENT ANO THEY. ICED MAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURING ...

TARGET

MA IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARCET

#FRAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDS OF AND ACCESS TO COMMIE PARTIES SALV AND

MORT CENTRAL AUSTRONG MENTRIES,

SA CUE IF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV

SECRET

SOURLES +METHODS

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

SECRET

IN SEE PAGEEIN

ARRANSCO CONTACT WI NEE

CUBANASSET

24

ACCEPTES WITHOUT

¡CA, FADE NO DEMANOS, OREENED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTOST

СоРегАтІ? те м

& CURITY PROSLEY TO DATE.

3. DO GOT FLAN HIT GUY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TiME, EXCEPT

DALTON

Mates, iS

SHONE TARGE TOO IMPORTANT TO

RISK DRAWING ATTENTION

GUÊDE PRESENCE OR RECTUITIENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE.

DALTON I'ISFFOCATION AND RECRUITYENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND

24O COLLA GRAT TO PCITANT IN THENSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FORECOING REASEN.

APRESS HANDLE EXACTLY AST

CANE VISHES.

SOURCES+METHODS

311

SECRET

24

ALTRIATIVE

APPEAREL GHT iN

SECRET

4/PN

---

