# 104-10100-10235

## Page 1

104-10100-10235

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

H.X. BRAUELLE

XX 7486

17 007 63

BOOK HIBBACK AS BALON

•A C

170cr63 22 502

STG. CEN :

=1:10ss

",SAS",

XEттA

q9

76506

XAS.

HADO CARE FADE CORT PALT

PACY SJAN MADR QUIT BRIL, RIOD

BU:?

РВВАНО

LATIN AMERICAN MAXALY BRILTS (HOFOIN IN SLANTS)

1, M XICO CUBA. MIXICO MSPONTIDLY HAS AGRIND TO BILL ITS INTIMI

1983 VERAT SUXPUS ON 275,000 TONS TO BILYIO TRICERRI, DUR TEE LOCAL

PUICHABING ACANT FOR THE BLOC. TRICIARI, A PERONIST ARGITINE NON

OPRAATING OUT OR SUITZARLAND, HAS PASVIOUSLY MADENTI BOUGHT FOOD IN

MEXICO POR CASTED, AND TER PROPOSED VHRAT PURCHABI NAY ALSO BE TOR CUBA.

LIX BALS PRICE IS ABOVE THE FOFLD.WHXET PRICE BUT BIZON TEB HIGH

DONASTIC PRICE PAID TO MEXICAN GRONTES BY THL MRXICAN GOVEXNHINT PUR

CRABINE ACRACT. (OOM%)

8. COSTA VICA: THR US DECISION TO SILI TRIAT TO THE SONIST UMON

18 CAMBINE NATT COSTA RICANS TO PAVOR RECONSIDIRATION ON THRIA CORATRE S

MEGATITE ATTITUDE TOMAND TRADI VITE COMMMIST NATIONS, ACCORDING TO M

RELIABLE SOURCE

MER IN SAN JOST. A LICENT EDITORIAL IN LA REPUELICA, VAICH

ULUALLY IRFLECTO TEX OPINION OR THE INCUMIRAT NATIONAL LIBIRATION PARTY.

ANTOCATIO SAVIBINO THI CUUNTET'S TRADE POLICY IN THIS DESPECT. ALSO,

ME COSTA NICA'S CHRONIC ECONONIC DIYPICULTINS COULD RCOURAGE A SHITT

DREAM DOLOOK

SECRET

16100

---

## Page 2

ORIGI

UNI! :

EXT

VLCLASSIFICO MESSAG

I can

OUTING

• INDEX:

I FILE IN CS: FILE NO.

10

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

DEFERRFO

RQUTINE

INFi) I

PAGE -208

I ATTRACTIVE TRADE ONE COA PORTICO NO TO TO A CR

ФАНТИТАТА НАТІ ПАСТИЧІЇ ЛМРШІТІВО ТАЛІВ ЛПОСАСІ ОП НОЗІ ГРАТЕ УТТН

3. CONTRAL ANTRICA: VIILE ME HONDURAT REGINS CONTINUAS TO BERRI

LNTEANITICNAL MACRONITION, OTTER CENTRAL ANERICAN COVIRUONENTA ANE VAGINE

17 ТО ХТИИ ТО ЛТ ШТАБ А ПЛАЛ] О ПІДОСЛАТІС СОТІЛНАТ ШНТІ

JUSTIONS CAN DE ROLD.. IT BERNA QUESTIONELE, BORAVNE, TSAT TE MOBINS

VILL MOLLON STRICTLY CORNTITUTIONAL MROCKDURES ESCADRI TO DO DO MICAT

хах інти 1 хм родо посертая то піх пхітаня.

1. BOATARALA: ANOTHER CZANDESTINI AXPORT OF COUP HiOTTING BY DIE.

ARTITO MUITANI ELBURNTS ABSIRTS THAT THE CORRPIRATORS ARE BRADY TO

OVA AT ATY TIMS, AND MILL USE THE PISTEST TEAT A COMMUNIST COUP I8

TANCIATE, THIE APARS TO EL A VRAS PASTEST IN VIRU OR THE FERALTA

INSINT'& STRONG ANTI-INTAKHIST MASUNKS WHICH HAVE THRON THE CONNUNISTS

INTO DIBORARR, POLICE TORCES VINE FLACRY ON ALERT OY 14 OCTOBER, BUT IT

IB HOT CLAR VIXTHER THIS NAS PROKPTED BY RUMORS OF A COUP.

S. PANANA: PORRIGA MINISTER SOLIS BATS THAT HIS OOVERHRNT VILL,

IN DIX MATT FIY VIIKS, AGAIN MIQUEST FORNAL NECOTIATIONS WITH THE UNITED

STATIS TO LIVITA TIL 1903 TRIATY COVERING THI CANAL, ZONE. MITE A

RELEASING OFFICER

8BC BET

REPRODUCTION BI

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS IRONIBITED.

UTMERTICATINI

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

CLASSILICO MESSAGE

Шта на . ...

DAGE -S 8

76506

PRRRTBNNTIRL FLECTION BIT TOR IRST KAY, THE CHIARI COVIRNENT'S RAIBING

O7 THI L'ANAL LONS PROBLEN AT THIS TIN! BURNS INTENDED AB AN EFFORT TO

TUP TAB INITIATIVE ANAY FION ITS OPPONANTS ON THIS HIGHLY ENOTIONAL

IBIZ: 80618 ADNITTID AS MUCH BY BAYING THAT THE OPENING OF NECO

TIATIONS ONLO "TESP THE PARAMANIAN PUBLIC QUIST." (CONF)

B. DOMINICAN IRPUBLIC: CONTINUING POLITICAL ISOLATION AND IS-

РОИТКД СОКТЕВС LOTTG BY BOTH ITS OPPONENTS AND SORE AVOID SUP

PORTERS AIR MAKING THS NEN GOVINNENT'S SUTURE INCHRASINGLY UNCERTAIN.

TRIUNVIRATI LIADER EILLIO DE LOS SANTOS IS REPORTED TO BE

AMIXONS TO ARBIGN ALLIGAILY BACAUSE OF HIS DISGUST MITH "SORDID AC-

TITTYXIS OF THE POLITICAL PARTIAS PARTICIPATING IN THE REGINA. " CIVILIAN

LEADERS AND ITLITARY BAGUINS OP THE NEY GOVERINENI APE REFUSING TO

HALINONTSA TIRIR POVER TO JUAN CARASMOVAS, PRESIDENT OF THE DISSOLVEN

SENATI AND THXRO IN PERSIDENTIAL SUCCESSION INDER THE ABROGATED CON-

STÄTUTION. TO CLAINS THAT A RECENT QUORUN OF TIB DERISED CONGRESS

SACHSTELY ELECTED IlL PRESIDBAT.

1E HAS HEM SEPHIT: •EMISPIERIC RE

XIANS LOGUITTON AS TR CONSTITITIONL PRESIDENT.

?. ECUADOS TE: ECUADORBAi ARLY CITICERS IPE TARING A 75-DAY

COURAS IN iSRAEL ON AGRICULTURAL AIL:: CTRATION 17US ECUADORRARS FILI.

---

## Page 4

4-00000

ORIG :

UNiT :

CLASSIFIED MESSAG

88C18T

O INDEX

D NO INDEX

Li FILE IN CS FILE NO

PREM: DIRECTOR

CC:IF :

INFO :

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

1O

INFO

PAGE off OF 8

CITE DIR

76506

ANTONIONY ATTLY THE KARALADIN TAY RAIY TO THI AGRARIAN ESPORA PROORAN

CONTISMLATID ВІ TВ ООА ЛИТА, ВІНСЬ ІКЛАТІ, АТ ВСТАДОВ «ТОНКА

1SON TICHITCAL ЛАВІС МАТКАМО, ІН УВА, Тв токоже пАв теа

ТИНО ТРОСОВ БРАТІ AD A MBBION 101 КУЧОКІ УСАНА ОП ПТІНІАТІВО

¡CRADOREAN ARICTLIUNS AND INDURTIE. (CORN)

8. ECTADOR: TIS ACTINS MINUS DINACTOR ON TIR PONSINTL CONTRIVA

TIVI PANTY BAB ISITERATSD TAR PANTY '8 INTENTION TO MITHDRAY ITB SUPPOST

ТОМ ТіВ ОЛІМ ПІТАТУ ША. НЗ ЛОТОСАТІВ ТНВ ІГАНГОЛЬ ЕНТАБІВА

п? вП 1 пІстатовані, вив CIVILIN ов Х. Іх тнів соньсте,

1L NUTTIONED THE NANS OR TE AMBITIOUS DATESS MINISTER, CARNIRAL, ANDELTO

KARANSO, NO HAS ERIN CLORE TO THR CONSENTATIVIS. (COUP)

D. VIRENURLA: THI MINASTRS OR DETAHSS TORESKES A SUNTINE IN

CURASS IN TERRORISI ACTIVITIBS. HR INTIMATIS TO THE UB AMBASBADOR ON

9 OCTOBER THAT MHS ABNT IS HAVING TROUBLE BUPPRASBING VIOLENCE LANNI

BECADES OF THR GOVERNMENT'S PAST LATNESS. HE WAS GLOONY ABOUT TH

TUTURE AND CRITICAL OF TEX GENERAL PUERIC'S LACH OT COOPERATION, (0O011)

10, BOLIVIA: THE POLITICAL FORTUNES ON PABSIDENT TICTOR PAR

BSTKAAB0R0, I7O VILL ARRIVE ON 22 OCTOBER TOR A THO-DAY RARLIIUTON VIBIT,

EATE IN MSCRIT MONTES SIRADILY IMPROVED, AND HIS POBITION IS SON PROBAILY

A:.LAS: 06 000:0:*

Bion: 09.00800

BICBBY

ANIMISTICATIN

son aralca' a

0681681

REBRUALC:ON EE CHEER THAN TE SOUND CARCE DE PERMIRITED.

Cox, Ma

---

## Page 5

SECRET

76506

STRONGER THAN AT ANY TINE SINCE EXS ILICTION IN 1960. SINCT THE FIRST

OF TiR TRAS, EL HAS BOOKED GAINS AT THE EXPENSE OF HIS PRINCIPAL OR

PONRINTS. THE HOST PONTINU OP WEON STAND VELL TO THE LEFT OF HIS AD-

MiNISTRATION AND RAS SO FAR MANAGED TO MAINTAIN CONSISTINCY IN HIS

POLYCIB8

11 BRAZIL / /PRESIDENT GOULART FAS SUPPERED TWO SERIOUS SETBACKS

TO

APTNN..THS OVERVINLNING OPPOBITION

UT HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE OF

STIG: WHICH FOBCD HIM TO VITHURAY NIS REQUEST AND THE CONGRESSIONAL

VOTE HADORON AGAINST HIS AGRARTAN ISFORM CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

GOULAIT'S BACKTRACKING IN TRE PACI OF THE CONGRESSIONAL OP-

POSITION TO HIS MAQUEST FOR A STATE OF SIGE REPREBENTS A SERIOUS MON

TO HIS NALATIONS VITH CONGRESS. THE FLOOR LEADER OF HIS OWN LABOR PARTY

T8 BRING REPLACID AS A ERSULT OF HIS OPER OPPOSITION TO TIR ERQUEST

CONUTION HE LA BEALONE DNICER OF DIBOLITIÓN ILI IVE LATER SOCTU

PRMOCRATIC RUNTS PS: AGUELL DO IT ON 11 DETOER TO DUSCUSS ARDE

THE BABASSY SUSA CONSENTS TIAT OONGESSSIONAL SETTINENT POR

GECRET

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

"N'.

"Es tie.

a...

iNif:.

iNFO

PAGE -B OF 8

Curse 76506

INTRACHIN DOGLART NAS MEI CONRIDARAELY STASFOTENHED BY LRCHAT EVERTE.

ALMONGE PRETAPS NOT TO TAR POINT OT POBING AN INOIDIATI TERRAT TO HIM.

IN ARRIVINE AT HIS CONCLUBION TO MITEDRAY HIS ILQUIST FOR A STATI

ON BISCA, GUEZART TURNTO TO HIS LETTIST SROTHER-IN-LAN LIONEL BRIZOLA

TOR ADTICS, AOCORDTRO TO A UBDALLY ENLIAILI CLANDISTINI SOURCE. TENY

INPONITILY AGNATO THAT GOULART SHOULD THRAT THETITIN APPRALS FOR

"TARRANAL TACH VARIOVA DOVERNORS, MAYORA, AND STUVANT AND TRACHERS.

UNIONS AS A "JOTS ON CONIIDANCE" AND THAT GOULART SHOTLD CONCENTRATE

ON HAGAINING TER SUPPORT OF THE "POPULAR FORCES"

PRA-COMUNIST MIGUEL, ARRAIS, GOVERNOR OF PERNABLUCO, HAS

ALTRADY MIL ICLY PROCLAINED COLLAIT' ACTION AS A "VICTORI FOR THR

"ROGUINa!VE PORCES. "

ADDING TO GOULART'S TOES IS DISSATISPACTION IN THE MILITARY

BETAM. BRET OVER VAR MINISTER RIBBIRO'S HANDLING OF THE REQUESTOR

TEX STATE OF SIEGE THE US ARKY ATTACHE HAS SEIN A LETTER FROM THE ARMY

CHINA OF STAIT TO R'IFIRO IN MHICH HE CASTIGATES TRE VAR MINISTER POR

NOT HAVIN, DISCUSSEL TIE SITUATION ITH MILITARY LEADERS PRIOR TO

ONLINE GOULART TO SEEX A STATE UP SIEG. 11

pid:

*...

---

## Page 7

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

BXCRET

76506

12. BRAZIL //BAX TALACO DANTAS, A SAVOR PRAZILIAN POLITICAL FIGURS,

BAS TOLD T8 ANBASBADOR CONDON THAT HI I8 MONK PESSINISTIC ABOUT BRAZIL

THAN AT ANY TINE SINCE GOULART CAME TO PONIR THO TRANS AGO.

DANTAB WHO WAS DOTH FORBIGN AND FINANCE, MINIBIER IN GOULART '8

CABINET, SAID TRAT WHILE PLBASED VITH THE E VITEDRANAL OR THE STATE OF

BIKOB ARQUAST, EX PELT THAT THR BPISODE HAS FURTHER UNDERHINED CAN-

MINENCS IN THE VIABILITY OF TER LUATIOI INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTUER OF THIS

COUNTIS. HI ELLINVES IT RAS LAID THE BASIS FOR FURTHER POLARIZATION OF

POLITICAL OPINION

DANTAS THINKS THAT THL PRINCIPAL REASON GOULART VITHDREY TI.

150188T NAS THS NASBIVI OPPOSITION PRON THE "SO CALLED POPULAR FORCES, "

BY WAXCH EX MEANT LIFTIST EXTRINISTS, WHO PROBABLY FELT THAT TIL STATE

ON BIRCE RECHT BE CEO TO TALE ACTION AGAINST TIRA. (BUO) //

13. TOCOREAT:A.. LATIN ANERICA - MOMALICHID STATIE: / REARER

OF TITTIS ENTOURAGE CONSIDER THAT RIS ESCENT VISITE TO BRAZIL: CHILE,

AND BOLITIA MERE FAILIRES.

ACCONDING TO A USUALLY ENZIABLE CLANPRETINE

SOURCE. TASY NEVE S:TRESSLY FURASRD DY HIS KIDDOR XERUE RECEPTION

MRX1CO, HONSVER. APPARETLY IBCAUSE I THE CONSIDBRAILY LARGER PUELIA.

TURMONT, TITO REPORTEDI: CAUSED SONE CONSTBRTATION ABONE DELEGATES

SECRET

---

## Page 8

FLINDEA:"

1? P81 INDEX

L FILE IN ES FILE NO.

•*****

ROUTINE

CONF,

INFL: :

DEFIASED

ROUTINE

INtO

PAGE -8- OF 8

CITE DIR 7 6506

TRON TIR NOMALICEO STATES AT TEE UN BY RI8 BRIANCA IN LATTY ANARICA

THAT THE COMCANT OR BLOCO AND MORALIANO STATES LAS MA PUTTERERIDEO

BYL/UST DIVIBION ON THR VOTED INTO SAES RKING ТОВ "РКАСТ С.

KUZBIRACS" AXD THOSE AGAINST 1T.I1

14. THE LATIN AMERICAN TASS TRADE ASBOCIATION: TAS LATIN

ANERICAN FUSE TRADE ASBOCIATION (LAFTA) I CURMNNILS IN BARBION TO.

XBTOTIATS A FIX THIRO HOUND ON TARIFT INDUCTIONE ON LATIA-ENGIONAL

TRADE, TEI LATTA TRRATY RIVIBAGES TE SLIMINATION OR TARTINS ON

"SUBSTANTIALLY N'Y" INTRA-BEGIONAL STRE CORRRACE BY 1972 AND INDICATES

THAT IS THIS VILL S A STEP TODARO THI EVENTURI PORMATION OR A

CONTININTAL COMION MARKET. THB PROSPECT HAS NOT ONLY STIRIND THE

IINGINATIONS OP ECONOMISTS AND BUSINESSHEN: IT HAS SPANOD THE INTEHESE

OS POLITICAL LEADERS, UTO PERCEIVI POSSIELLITISE ON DEVEL OPING LATTA

A AT

MANS FORCE FOR EXTENDING LATIN AMERICiN INFLUENCE IN FORLO

3010828 COTNCILS

END OF MESSAGE

'--

FiND OCTOR BY OTHER THAN DADD- DECER: PROMENES.

Copy No.

---

