# 104-10331-10099

## Page 1

AAAAA

1104-10331-10099

-Biscitih

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-file

SECRET

20 February 1996

TIMELINES FOR ARRB DETERMINATIONS

ARRB "Determination Documents" under Appeal (U)

LIAISON ISSUE: Document # 104-10052-10087 (substitute

language)

24 October 1995

- ARRB Meeting

07 November Letter - Notification to Agency of ARRB

decisions

Week of 4-8 Dec. - Documents

sent to ARRB staff for

transfer to NARA/ ARRB staff

inserted substitute language

12 December 1995 - HRG/DO sees substitute language in

context

12/13 Dec. Mtg.

14 December

18 December

18

January 1996 -

31 January

1 February

8

February.

- Board refuses to reconsider

substitute language: "30 days set

by law had expired"

- Letter to Marwell requesting that

the document not be release until

discussion re appeal were complete

- ARRB Staff transfers document to

NARA; Steve Tilley, JFK Records,

NARA, agrees

to hold document 30

days as permitted by JFK law.

NARA deadline for release of

document to public/ extended due to

furlough and

weather

- Steve Tilley informed HRG that he

will probably have to release the

document the week of 5 Feb.

Tilley informed Linda C., OGC, that

he would hold the document until

directed by ARRB to release

Appeal to the President/White House

(WH) directs NARA to hold document

(U)

611137}

SECRET

1

CL BY:_

CL REASON:.

DECL ON: _

DRV FROM:

LOC

3-82

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

ASSET

ISSUE:

Document # 104-10015-10398

13/14 November 1995

- ARRB Meeting

28 November Letter

- Notification to Agency of ARRB

decisions

12/13 December

- ARRB Meeting; voted not to

reconsider

28 December

- Deadline for transfer of

document to NARA/extended due

to weather and furlough

Note: Agency held this document until week of 22 January

when ARRB staff requested that it be transferred to NARA.

25 January

• Document received by Tilley

ARA: Will hola for 30 day.

8 February

Appeal to the President/WH directs

NARA to hold document

STATIONS ISSUE: Document #s

12/13 December

27 December

27 January

7 February

8 February

8

February

104-10015-10149

104-10015-10237

104-10015-10401

104-10017-10069

(Helsinki)

ARRB Meeting

- Notification of the Agency of ARR

determinations

- Documents due to National Archives;

extended one week due to weather

HRG notified that DO will only appeal

the Helsinki station document

Documents transferred to NARA

via ARRB

Appeal to the President/WH directs

NARA to hold Helsinki document

(#104-10015-10401)

(S)

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

ARRB Determinations under consideration for Appeal (U)

5 January 1996 -

ARRB Meeting

The Board released the following stations:

Brussels, {Copenhagen, The Hague, Helsinki, Madrid, (Oslo),

Rome, (Stockholm Jerusalem) was tabled pending addition

evidence.

There are also some liaison) equities in these

documents. All 34 documents are effected. (S)

25 January - Notification to Agency of ARRB decisions

received

1 February- 7 day WH deadline for appeal.

26 February - Documents due National Archives

(U)

30/31 January 1996 - ARRB Meeting

Stations and Liaison:

The Board released 6 new stations/bases _(Melbourne,

Canberra, New Delhi* Bombay, Calcutta, Madras) Land continued

to release Brussels, Bern, Geneva, Copenhagen Helsinki,

Madrid, (Oslo, The Hague and (Stockholm! Individual stations

appear in multiple documents; approximately 30 documents

effected. There are also some liaison equities in these

documents. (S)

Names of CIA Staff Employees:

The Board released all names in these documents that we

had not provided specific evidence on (see attached list).

Whitten was tabled until the 18/19 March meeting.

14 February - Notification to Agency of ARRB decisions

received

22 February - White House Deadline for Appeal

15/18 March - Documents Due National Archives

(U)

SECRET

3

---

## Page 4

13-00000

UUNANDNIIAL

7 February 1996

Name Listing

Following is a listing of names designated for release in documents reviewed

by the JFK Assassination Records Review Board on 30 and 31 January 1996

that Central Cover had identified as being covert:

Anderson, FNU

Ams!

Mr.

Brasko, Alexander 3

Flick, Charles

Harvey, John (four in Central Cover records)

Johnson, William (numerous in Central Cover records)

Keenan, Tom

Manell, H.

Reardon, Dave

Riefe (Robert, retired overt, rehired annuitant as covert)

Rodriguez, Milly

Swenson, Mr.

Swider

Tarasoff, Boris

White

Zeitner, Rick

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY: 0563956

CL REASON: 1.5 (C)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: COV 1-82

---

