# 104-10014-10064

## Page 1

1104-10014-10064)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

OPERATOR : SEEGER, EDWA

OFFICE

IMS/FABOSS

ROOM

: GC520H8

21162

BADGE:

KT283

PHONE:

047552

PRINTER: T019

DOC DATE: 20 NOV 91

COMET

DATE

TIME

PAGE

: 14 SEP 93

15:24

: 001

HF#: 91-6320813

is

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

ATE 008-20558/10-3 (353) INFO: C/ORNS, DOMOS, LIMITO.

91 6320813

ASR

PAGE 001

TOR: 201455Z NOV

91

SEDORECORO,

IN 6320813

21162

SECRE T 2014542 NOV 9I STAFF

CITE

TO:

_21162

INFO DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT SE/USSR/IO INFO SEARR

SLUGS: WNINTEL GTDANCER

SUBJECT: KGB OFFICIAL NIKONOV

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE.

2. DURING

THE WEEK OF 3-9 NOVEMBER 1991

HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS IN

MOSCOW WITH "SLAVA"'

'(NIKONOV)), WHO IS A LONGTIME FRIND AND NOW DEPUTY

TO KG8

DIRECTOR

( (BAKATIN)).

TAS KNOWN NIKONOV WELL

SINCE 1976.

HE CURRENTLY IS

UNTIL 22 DECEMBER 1991.

SEE

PARA 7 FOR BIO ON

DCOB

STEVEN R.

HEIBERG HAS

BEFRIENDEO

WHO WAS DINNER GUEST

AT HEIBERG'S

HOME ON

10 NOVEMBER AND PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFO ON NIKONOV

AND HIS NEW KGB JOB.

NIKONOV IS THE GRANDSON OF FORMER SOVIET

MINISTER VYACHESI AV MOLOTOV.

NTKONOV WAS REGARDEO AS EXTREMELY INTELLIGENT AND

CAPABLE BUT GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT HE WAS

BELIEVED THAT HE WAS LIKELY

RISING STAR IN THE SOVIET SYSTEM AND RECOMMENDEO

HIM FOR AN

IREX-SPONSORED VISIT TO THE U.S.

AS EXPECTED,

NIKONOV'S

AND RHETORIC MODERATED VERY VISIBLY AFTER HIS FIRST DIRECT

EXPOSURE TO ?HE U.S.

HE HAS HAD AT LEAST ONE

IREX-SPONSOREO TRIP TO THE U.S.

ADDITIONAL

AND HAS SPENT PERIODS OF TIME

AS A PERSONAL GUEST AT THE HOME OF

RESULT ON BONOG

NIKONOV CAME TO WORK IN HIS POSITION AT THE KGB AS A

A CLOSE FRIEND OF BAKATIN.

1991 COUP ATTEMPT NIKONOV SAID THAT HE REFUSED TO FOLLOW HIS

BOSS'S ORDER TO ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE DECLARED STATE OF

NE WAS DISMISSEO BY HIS BOSS

(NF|) FROM THIS

POSITION AND CALLEO BAKATIN TO SEEK ADVICE.

BAKATIN SAID HE

COUP AND WOULD LOOK OUT FOR NIKONOV ONCE

ORDER WAS RESTORED.

SOON AFTER THE COUP BAKATIN CALLED

ASK THAT HE ASSIST WITH RESTRUCTURING THE KGB.

AGREED THAT NIKONOV COULD DECLINE TO ACCEPT TWO-STAR MILITARY

KGB RANK AND WORK IN THE JOB FOR AN EQUIVALENT CIVILIAN

COMPENSATION PACKAGE,

HE CAME TO THE KGB AS BAKATIN'S

NIKONOV SAID HIS FRIENDS WERE DELIGHTED THAT HE HAD DECLINED

THE KGB COMMISSION.

NIKONOV'S FIRST ASSIGNMENT FROM BAKATIN WAS MAKING

ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE KGB-CIA LIAISON RELATIONSHIP WHICH

HAS NOW

COME INTO BEING. IN PREPARATION FOR ONE POSSIBLE QUESTION

&< < TEMPORARY WORKING COPY - DESTROY AFTER USE >>>

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

OPERATOR

: SEEGER,

EDWA

BADGE:

KT 283

OFFICE

: IMS/FABOSS

PHONE :

04?552

ROOM

GC520H8

PRINTER: T019

REQUESTER: HM877

OSN:

21162

DOC

DATE:

20 NOV 91

is desidi i sono dies des se l de se se sei dese se des desess

COMET

DATE

TIME

PAGE

Мня#: 31-63208:3

: 14 SEP 93

15:24

002

WHICH MIGHT BE RA!SEO.

NIKONOV PERSONALLY REV'EWED YGS FILES TO

REVIEWED •IVE THICK

NIKONOV IS

CONFIDENT THAT ESWALD

WAS AT NO

TIME AN AGENT CONTROLLEO BY THE

FROM THE GESCRIPTION OF

THAT ANYONE COULD

WATCHEO HIM CLOSE:Y

BUT NOTED THAT THE KBG

CONSTANTLY WHILE HE WAS IN

STORMY RELATIONSHIP WITH

OSWALD WAS A POCR SHOT WHEN HE TRIEO TARGET

6. IN PREPARATION FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF A,

I. NIKONOV

PERSONALLY PERFORMED AN

i (WALLENBERG)) .

BAKATIN INTO THE FATE

THERE IS STILL PRESSURE

SIDE TO HAVE A DEFINITIVE

ANSWER ON THIS

MATTER BECAUSE OF THE CONTINUING IMPORTANCE OF THE WALLENBERG

NIKONOV WAS AMAZED TO

OUT THAT THE KG3 HAO

•BEEN ABLE TO PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISH

WHETHER WALLENBERG MAD

AND UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES.

HE WAS ABLE TO FINO PARTIAL

EVIDENCE FROM FOURTEEN DIFFERENT

BUT FOUND NO CONCLUSIVE

THAT WALLENBERG WAS

EXECUTEO LATE

ONERE WERE IOOICATIONS "THAT WERLENBERS

SUSPECTEO OF HAVING CONTASTS

WITH OTHERS WHO WERE

IDENTITY DOCUMENTS TO OTHERS

BEYOND JEWS SAVEO FROM THE HOLOCAUST.

. AMONG THESE WERE

WAR CRIMINALS WHO WERE ALLOWED

WAR ALLENDORS SOUVERE A ADY OF THESE CHARGES.

WHO IS NIKONOV'S

ANO FRIEND IS:

NAME :

008:

CIT:

C.1920

USA

OCC:

RETIRED

LOC:

RESIDES NEAR

ATHER.

THERE ARE NO BASE TRACES ON

HE SERVED IN THE

MILITARY AND IS VERY WEIL

DISPOSEN TOWARNE

THE I1.S

GOVERNMENT.

FILE:

END OF MESSAGE

DEFER.

Er-005-OlCi 2002005H5 4-82.

SECRET

END

OF

DOCUMENT

sessis

.. :

с...".

<< < TEMPORARY WORKING COPY - DESTROY

AFTER USE>>>

СЕЛБСЇ

---

