# 104-10181-10069

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10181-10069

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• DISPATCH

TO

1290

127:

FROM

19024

RETURNTO CIA

324-2-g28ackground Use Only

Do Not reprodude

Fife?, LE

ACTION MONTES

GUFRDENCRISI

MARRED FOR AXING

NO IDERINE 8E2. 1E0

NOIXINE CAS DE NOGED

Ar QUALIFIES NO DESE ONEY

The recert defection for lany KIDs Of Set. "ladlair SLOBON Are

occaslocal a federel teries of socusanl procuresert. procedures utillelie

exARise tRe InICer suTa ClOsel, In lia flell, viere ail Informatios le

resisliy at baal, so deteralne uberter aucà procedures, for reasure of

BeauTiLy, aliti pasalbly de alterod.

AlEdors ne realily actsontalie tut all pertinent fucto are sor

aralisile to us as leadquarters, 1t 18 our understanding taut dt the prezcat,

all Janentation procured fras iernas officials in lvariber6, bad Boatart,

nad Glesser, la esteciod taroyit the Interrention of Caup Alap. la abort,

our rejseats are avialited abrough tna lasp Klag office, •blet carries too

requests on to use taraas ofilies viles actually lague the docurenes. lot

Bly do alditional survers of personal recone knouled odile of suc: requests,

•ut a fale on all such vork for JUlY offices le, Cortany la salntained li

any Ilas, the serarity of válca vould aupear oped to doce questlos.

3. Is suey vell to thai ros a

tIE I96 ICE(C) astailiaral MytPA, no cho coordiuator or all legal •cat

Gerado jocuserlatlon for all serviceo, lu -hich erent, direct 11a1tos v10.

deal Gerana offices vould alpest to Do putsurizad oy such a deslenazion.? Y

¿. ¡e visa serely to raise the prooles at this junecure for your

consideration and lous forward to the garly rectipt of your vious mil

PERCY A. RATIPLOTI

20 Sepiez0er 1960

Distritution:

01:61 - 00: (1113: ilrarsos)

1 - RI

1 - DC/EE/C

M. EE/C/CE

- EE/G'IS

(tunny copy,

---

