# 104-10128-10251

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10128-10251

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

May2E

15.

1.71.70.

OUTLINE S

Subject: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee

1. NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE _

David Phillips

2. PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT

Were you ever personally acquainted with him?

Yes or No

NO

If you were never personallv

acquainted with him have you acquired anv information of

a personal nature concerning him through other persons?

Yes or No

NO.

Give details including dates,

by months and vears as iest vou can recall, circumstances,

purpose and nature of any relationship vou mav have had

with him and

provide all data relating to his character

or personality, illustrating briefly with any stories or

other information acquired as a result of your own.

relationship with him or which might have been acquired

from others.

I HAVE & VAGUE RECOLLICTEIN iF MEETING

ASCE iN THE NALA, BRIBELŸ, SEVERAL SEALE A6D-

BUT IGN NAT SURE AROUT Fi.

3.

SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF YOU, PROJECTS, OR OPERATIONS IN

WHICH YOU PARTICIPATED

On the basis of vour personal association with

Subject, either official or social, or, on the basis of

what you know or believe him to be knowledgeable of,

outline the nature and extent of information you believe

he could provide an opposition intelligence service as to

(a) your identity as an intelligence officer or emplovee,

(b) your personal background and experience including

places of assignments, and (c) operations in which you

participated in some way. (Cryptonyms should be employed

when known.

The nature of the operations in any event

should be briefly but sufficiently described to lead to

their identification, with the dates or periods involved

and any comments or observations as to their success or

failure.)

NO ApPLICiELE,

SORET

CENTE

ASLE

Page 1 of 3

...

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

4-00000

4.

OTHER AGENCY PERSONNEL

List other Agency personnel or former personnel,

who on the basis of your own personal knowledge or

belief, had official or sacial contact with Subject.

Give brief information as to the period and nature of

such

relationship for each.

5. OTHER U. S. GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL

List all other U. S. Government personnel who, on

the basis of your own personal knowledge or belief, had

particularly close official or social contact with

Subject.

Identify the Bureau, Department, Agency or

Office with which each such person was employed at the

time of the relationship and give brief information i

concerning the period and nature of such relationship

for each.

:

6. OTHER PERSONS

List

all other persons who irrespective of nation-

ality, sex, or employment are known or believed to have

had intimate or particularly close association with him

and

brief information concerning the identity and occu-

pation of such persons, your knowledge of such persons,

and the period and nature of the relationship of such

person

with Subject. Include also the names of all

American

, and

foreign newspaper people with whom he is

known or believed to have had personal contact irre-

spective of the extent or closeness of their relation-

ship. Give names with brief information as to the period

• and nature of such

relationship for each.

NO KAOULDÓ OF TNiS.

Page 2 of 3

-.2.

110006192

=/P.J

---

## Page 3

4-00000

HOSTILE INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS

Can you provide any information of any kind

tending to establish that Subject may have been

sympathetic to hostile ideologies or had

contact

with

and

was cooperating with a hostile intelligence

service.

Yes

If yes, give

full details.

Dated:

27 JuLY 1977

*This is an Outline only of information desired. If you

either knew the Subject or have any information from other

sources on any of the points contained in the outline, a

separate memorandum is needed with each paragraph thereof

keyed to those in this outline. If you neither knew the

Subject nor have any information of the kind requested in

any section. of the outline (and only in such instance)

negative entries may be entered under all sections, and the

outlined returned after signing and dating. The signed and

dated outline will thus serve as a memorandum for the files.

3

Page 3

of 3

---

