# 104-10320-10086

## Page 1

АЛАЛА

104-10320-10086

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Review Staff:

76-0070/a

Dates

13 January 1976

FLiSSC/CI

TO

CIA Task Force

FROM:

The Review Staff,

Walter Elder

SUBJECT : SSC/HSC Request

• RECEIVED: Date13 Januaty

Dato 15 January: Ting 1137 ha

The attached SSC letter requests specific information

about the Warren Commission report.

Comments:

Action

Info

X.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

SC/DCI

A/DDA

A/DDI

A/DDO

A/DDS&T

OGC

OLC

IG

B. Evans

27-4

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MONARD N.

CHARLE:

DO SON IN ONO

DEUNLIU

¿Inited States Senate

ELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUOY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ALTIVITIES

(PURINANT TO I ALS II, SIT CONGUELS)

WASHINGTON, DUG 20510

Januaty

1976

REVIEW STAFE

76-0010

Mr. Walter Elder

Review Staff

Central Intelligence Agency

• Langley, Virginia

Dear Walt:

"In the course.of its review ot CIA tiles on President

Kennedy's assassination, the staff noted that Item 119 ot

the Mexico City chronology contained the following reference

to DIR 86054 of 12/1/63:

Headquarters received a report that on day of

assassination, Cubana aircraft delayed its de-

¡ parture Mexico City 5 hours, 1700-2200 awaiting

important passenger who arrived Mexico City air-

port in private twin notor aircraft at 2130.

Passenger transferred directly to Cubana plane

JAN 13

N

without going through custons or immigration.

Above

PH

•from (code used) diplomat who passenger on same

Plane to Habana. Request you attempt identify

and determine reason unusual actions at airport

The staff has not been able to determine that an inves

tigation of this claim was conducted. Therefore, we would like

to have the following questions answered in connection with

this information.

1. "What persons were involved in the preparation of

DIR 86054?

2.

Who

was the diplomat referred to in the message? How

did he transmit the information to CIA? Fumish copies

of all messages, memoranda or other documents which

evidence transmittal of the information to CLA•

3.

Was there any response or followup to DIR 86054? Fur-

nish copies of all responses.

CERRET

27-5

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRIE!

Mr. Walter Elder

January 9, 1976

Lage Two

4.

6.:

If there was no response or followup,

explain why.

and what

procedures were in effect at that time to ensure followup.

on outgoing messages:

What other information does CIA have relating to this

message or to the information it contains?

We have been informed that CIA in Mexico City obtained

manifests for flights through that city.

Please fur-

nish the manifests for this flight.

SincereL

William B. Bader

SECRET

27-6

---

## Page 4

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTI*

SECRE!

QUECT: (Oplional)

OM.

Richard

Fuller

2B-1415

Assistant to the SA/DDO

Da (Officer designation, room mumbor, and

EXTENSION

9018

OFFICER'S

ANTIALS

C/CI Staff

DATE

RECEIVED

ja?

141671

FORWARDED

NO:

DATE

1: 18

January 1976

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to

→ Dran e line corses colomis

DistrIbution:

- DC/LA

no. CI Staft

BOTH HAVE ACTION.

2-4: Plene coolina

6.

A SA/DDO.

23667:

(fulter)

although we malet he

able to helg out unth

23 al 75:

call one inhe

Rame clatt

12.

13.

14

35.

FAow: 410

27-3

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED 12: # CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

LA/mEX Parti MiNAmaca

Soun

DATE

INITIAL

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRERCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

ATT. IS DAN'S CONTRIBUTION 78 SSC

REQUEST. READI faR your ald, tions

and or comments.

дыно.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME ADORESS AND PHONE NO.

07/0650, 07-5,8

UNCLASSIFTED

romana 237

Use provious aditions

(Зі, 25і44

CONFIDENTIA

* GPO: 147) 2: 331*431

DATI

130/1/176

SECRET

(40)

27-1

NEWS AI

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Pertinent to SSC letter of January 95 1976, CI Staff

has the föllowing comments to make:

Item 1 - The persons involved in the preparation of

DIR 86054 appear on the outgoing message.

Item 2 - As close as we can determine the diplomat

referred to was an Italian.

How he transmitted the information

to CIA is not reflected in the Oswald files. Therefore we

cannot provide or furnish copies of all messages, memoranda,

other documents which evidence transmittal of the information

to CIA.

Item 3 - We cannot find in the Oswald 201 any response

or followup to DIR 86054.

Item 4 - Defer to LA Division for response.

Item 5 - CI Staff cannot competently repiy to the question

raised. We can only limit our response to what is contained in

the Oswald 201•

Item 6 - Defer to LA Division.

27-2

---

