# 104-10180-10037

## Page 1

104-10180-10037

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(448)3.25-0,748

10 March 1864

SUBJCT: JURS Repeated Reference to May 196% Invas1os

R5P. 3 24-34967-3 Virt- C. C.4ä315

1. The following may be of interest to SAs (Sberrood).

entatives of the (private) California Intelligence Bureau, Loi

ageles, that they planned to invade Cuba by 20 May 64.

3. Gonzalez and Estevez made no secret of their JURB-atf1liat10

and solleited a donation of $92.00 to equip one fighter.

told Gonzalez that 11 Castro's departure seant control Of Cuba by

JURE and RAY, he vasn't so sure he vanited Castro to go.

- end -

POLICE THi

CIA ISTER ME USE GALY

Excluse

---

## Page 2

Rivero Interrion of Manuel (Manclo) Day

Chies, Coniact Division (Support) Stunts 2270

D0/03

sAS/Reglotry

Mikas beller, t0 2702

John Sherrood, SAS/EDI

OR 1901

Caso 42,315

3 March b

for your into sai rotontion.

- Raro Stunte

.._

---

## Page 3

4-00000

solili i? a90.947

2u february 1964

SUBJECT: Esvero Interusew of Manuel (Manulo) MAY (ODiC Cacie le315)

Interviened on au feb t4, Fillberto Nivero described the circunstances

of die recorded statesent ao follows:

1. "in conncetion willi ey Spandth language radio

roiram. au beil ao in turtleianco of my versoral interest

Al on te occasion of his visit and uncch at los Angelo

on " Dec 63.

WiY lo the leader of the supposedly anti-Castr

inup krow as Jura, or dunta revoluclonaris cubano.

interview, with RAY's permission, wes espod wille we vere

procedir: via Volkswa,en to the airport.

RAY's chauffeur,

sinliscantly, wag a JuRe surpurter, Manolo GONZAlaz who,

I recall, was emocionalli

condemning the Us ir front of the

Les Angeles Civic Center at the line of the abortive Buy of

Pies Invasion attempt.

2. "As you will note in the lped record, I wus

brutally frank with kay.

convince him that his stard did not differ markedly from

that of the Concunists.

sic iber lar, nos Junci, une prone

to attack castro frontalli.

Thelr responde to everyluin

1s a criticion or un altack ou sutiute.

RaY's devotion

to socialam 1s piellully

more tiat he did not break wich

It was Castro

nfter the formor nde it clear in

curuary 3559 Choc tiis objece vas

not murdered Cumillo Cienfuegos and

mulerto Natos, chunces ure mt would seill be with him.

"As jou will note, it espouses public ownership

os' elecuric pover facilities, trusportation, communications,

eic. Ila defense 1s buseú exclalvely on the allegation,

probably true, that the extension of elcctric power frito

rural arens 16 not economiculli fecûlule, hence neglected

ly private industry, No otier rouson 15 advanced for tie

nazlonalization of other industries. At any rate, Ray

speaks for hinself in the inicrier, and in the unhappy,

but unlikely event that hil and dula ever come tu prominence

and study it."

Enel:

- end

1'S0 1nG, single track, one side only tape recording os

Dei 03 Rivero-RAY Interview in Spanish

H0.9:14 9:1491

-==

---

## Page 4

Manalo Ray /JUKE

Chlos, Contace Divladon (Sarpart) Stunte 2270

Case 47, 319

13 FAB 66,

DO/03

(S/Roglatro

1199 iollor, CO 270:

Poln Sherrood, 81S/ED1

1901

-John, there lo a note that h

JaVanon) has not yot rournd ini

Revero. I think this roport 1n

from Rosa, and in her vordo.

"Mayo Stunts

---

## Page 5

14-00000

1:202415)3. 2-91. 27>

T6Lr7 4734937

10 February 1964

jubject: Caze 42315 - Manolo Ray/JURE

1. I heard Manolo Ray's speech to tho Cuunn oxiles in Los Angeles,

and also kai an opportunity to visit with him for a fow minutes.

Tre

jollowing 18 my ecaluation of Ray.

Feels that tres will not to aule to contribute financially if they are.

not employes, also. He makes a bir point, too, that they must rely

neavily on the people within Cuba, suing, that there are many there who

must cooperate now in order to get work and food, but that in their

hearts they are not pro-fidel.

He wants them particularly to set the

meccage that he 1s not against they but needs their help.

3a Ray seems to favor a rovernmental system like Fuerto Rico's.

He likes wrat he described as a

"cooperative system," and praises the

1dea of enverteent autonomous corporations.

At the same time, he says

he 15 in favor so caintaining private property and supporting education.

His aim, he says, 1s first to get Cube out of the Soviet arca, and then

Into the detocratic area, but adds that it would not be proper to trade

a leftist alcatorship for a rightist.

%. Of some 400 or 500 people who heard Ray speak, most were some-

what indifferent, even critical at first, but at the end scened to

- end -

---

## Page 6

4-00000

Stand 3e9s digestin.

i guest filia kirica.

ni fail an alicies it betivela

Rey-

24 Die 63 tickle

oleu Come 42.315

Кінцо -

16/0m63

John shed adwered he

had good tip to S.E and L.A.

Wantidas I ep ques appreciation

fu keep

yassutane.

+ sheward thi a contat f his

had! been unLA a

nd he (River) had

met him and inturewed him. River

To tele dif manti rent.

Thin tres

Ith matle

they is intend in

RST

---

## Page 7

14-00000

STUNTE

2270

SECRET 172100

11 UDO 1YOS

miss

LATTE

н1 - 62293

FROM SUPPORT (STUNTZ)

GROUP CAR EXCLUDED PROM AUTOLATIC DOMGRADING AND DECLASSIPICATION

NEM CASE 42,315

857A Hi 62223

LO JOIN SHERHOOD, SAS, WANTS TO DUDS TANX ALL CONCENED FOR THEIR HELP AND

ASSISTANCE ON HIS RECENT TRIP TO LA.

2. PES DEVANONIS CONTACT FILIPO RIVERO, JOHN IS INTESTID IN RIVERO'S REPOST ON

THE ACTIVITIES OF MANOLO RAY Il TIC LA AREA, RESULTING FROM RIVERO'S INTERVIEH

WITH RAY. WE ARE OPEZVING THIS CASE TO COVER.

3. PLEASE SUBHIT ODA(3) REPORT TO SATISTY REGUITEMENT. THANKS.

ECR

R

---

