# 104-10062-10058

## Page 1

AAAAR

1104-10062-10051

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

In Reply, Pliner Refer so

file No.

(105-11883)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami,

Florida

March

5, 1969

- SECRET -

MICHÜFILMED

MAR Z5 1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

KE: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 25, 1969, source, a Cuban exile

residing in Miami, Florida, furnished the following

signed statement, as translated from the Spanish

language:

Miami, Florida

February 25, 1969

I, (name of source), have read a statement

of my rights and understand my rights.

These

rights

were read to me by JOSEPH S. DAWSON, who

identified himself to me as a Special Arent of

thie Feileral Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in

the presence of SAMUEL W. JONES, who also identified

himself to me as a Special Agent of the FBI.

signed a waiver of rights after I had read my

rights, and the Agent had read them to me.

make this statement to the Special Agents of the

FBI voluntarily.

They have not threatened me or

made promises to me to make this statement.

I have given information about the Cuban

Intelligence

Service (CIS) to Agents of the FBI,

which information was not correct.

According to

my previous statement, my first contact with the

(CTS was in November

of 1967, while actually I was

recruited for the CIS in about October of 1965.

- SECRET

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

4..

!

116-5-14

DSC 4593)

10.0.

535-CC528

#5613

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE LITED STATES

Just before the time of the Camarioca affair in

October oi 1965, l made a Clandestine trip by

boat to Cuba to bring out relatives of Cubans

who residid in the United States. This trip was

made in

tro boats with ENRIQUE GONZALEZ, Stow deceased;

SEE AND t whd weed the nicknames

GU HAGUA" and "EL PICARO."

Wlien I was visiting a person

1n Havana, Cuba,

whose name I do not remember, who was, a person

I had been sent to in order to make arrangements

for the families who were leaving Cuba with me,

I was detained by two men whoädentified themselves

to me with credentias as G-2 Agents.

They took me

to an office in Havana, of which I do not know the

address.

In this office, they kept me for eight

to ten hours.

While I was detained, a man dressed

in olive drab uniform interrogated me.

This man

accused

me of being an Agent for the Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the United States,

which I denied.

At the request of this uniformed

man, I consented to work for the G-2 in the United

to the United States with the Cuban

families

261-285665

G-2 official gave me the address of

Minister of the Interior or Minister

no further instructions, but told me that I should

keep in contact, since

they would possibly need

2.

su N.S.

ad. i.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

RE:

at: Caba?

Sey: F

A: Clea

Ria

i,

- SECRET -

CUSAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN II UNITED STATES

ne in the future. He took down information

concronist my background, including my address,

which was

it that time 107 Southwest 18th Court,

Apar want i8, Miami, Florida.

y next come peter tany import with th

CIS occurred

some five months later, when I wrote

?letter which I had written to my wife, .

•ARSINEZ

This letter was addressed to

MARINEZ at 1126 Avenida Narciso Lopez,

Altamiia, Dinar

del Rio, Cuba, or to the Bar

l'lata,

San, Cristobal, Pinar del Rio, Cuba.

wrole

this letter to RAMIRO VALDES with the

purpose of paving the way for another trip to

bilip people out of cuba. In other words, it

425

to insure my entrance and departure, without

dificulty from the Cuban Government.

In this

letier, I wrote only that I was still at their

service, and that I would soon return to Cuba by

boat.

I did not receive an answer to this

letter.

My next contact with the CIS was in August

of 1966, when I went to Cuba by boat to bring

people out or cuba and to pring them to the

United states.as refugees.

with ADOLEO!

on this trip, i went

khow.

On this trip, we arrived.in Cuba at midnight,

and BORGES and I went to the home of his parents

in Rancho Veloz, Las Villas.

The next morning,

I left with the

sister of BORGES, BLANCA,

for

Sagua la Grande, where I obtained a car which tool

me to Havana.

BORGES had instructed me to

contact a family in Havana which was friendly

with BORGES, but the man to

whom I had been

3.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 4

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

had already gone to Sagua la Grande?

tell l went to the house of cuLto MOReno I

Havina.

do not know the fadress, but fer

1 contacted several relatives of MORENO: whO

wanted to leave* Cuba.

In order to assure me that

I would have no problem

leaving Cuba, I

called the telephone number of JAIME RODRIGUEZ,

the number they had given me previously, and asked

hem to contact me on an urgent matter.

A little

later, three men dressed in civilian dothing

airlyed in a car, and one of them identified

himself as JAIME

RODRIGUEZ. He was a white man,

5'8"

, 155 pounds, sharp features, with a short

beard and large ears.

He gave me no specific

instructions, but told me to stay in conta ct

with them.

After this, I had no contact with the CIS

until about february or March of 1967.

This

was after I had been detained by United States

Customs Agents in Miami when I was trying to

leave for Cuba by boat. On this occasion,

February 21, 1967, I was arrested and charged

with Ässaulting a Federal Officey, and I was

freed on bond,

awaiting trial. After I was out

on bond and while I was awaiting trial, I was

restricted to the state of Florida.

In the meantime,

I wrote the second letter to RAMIRO VALDES and

sent it enclosed in a letter addressed tom

wife in Cuba to one of the above-mentioned

addresses.

In this letter, I told lAudes, that

I was in a difficult situation and could not

leave

the State of Fbrida, and that I wished to

talk to

someone who could help me.

coat 942 nd to

- SECRET -

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES

I received an answer to this second letter

in about July of 4967, while I was in jail.

The answer was a typewritten létter signed "RENE,

and tas

scht in an envelope placed inside another

eaveione.

The outside envelope was sent from

Costa Kica. I did not receive this letter while

in prison, since ADOLFO BORGES, with whom I was

opened it and kept it for me until my

deparlure from prison in Septenber of 1967)

Afior I left prison in September of 1962,

I received several telephone calls at the home of

ADOLFO FORGES from an Indivfdual in New York

who inertified himself as "'ONTES REOCA" and

"JULIAND"

When I first talked witt

me tirat he was "RAMIRO'S COUsin."He later

Certai

tottoo mtions

_(CMUN) •

I made several trips to

New YorDunder assumed names.

In New York, I

met with JESUS JIMENED and we discussed the Cuban

exile situation.

Complete information about these

trips and meetings with JIMENEZ have been furnished

1 signed statements

Since the first contact with (JIMENEZ, I have

made several reports by telephone and others personally

to JIMENEZ; about the activities of several anti-CASTRO

groups in Miami, and I have received about two thausand

dollars from JIMENEZ for these services, including

money for the tickets; to New York.

Concerning these reports, JIMENEZ showed a

great deal of interest in information relating to

clandestine trips to Cuba by members of the anti-

CASTRO groups in Miami, as well as any plan of

attack against the person of FIDEL CASTRO. All

5.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 6

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

the information that I have given to CIS has been

deceiving or false, and I have been careful to

insure that the false information could not be

checked on.

To demonstrate that I was a reliable

person, •I gave

certain information about events

that had already happened which could be verified

or which was public information.

For example,

after one clandestine trip to Cuba carried out

by Cuban exiles,

I gave information about this

trip, but only after they had returned to the

Unitrd States. I never have given information

which could have jeopardized any person, to the

best of my knowledge.

In December of 1968, I furnished to JIMENEZ

a completely lake story about a plan by Cuban

exiles in Miami to assassinate FIDEL CASTRO.

1

told him that they were going to make this attack

while CASTRO was speaking at the annual celebration

on the first or second of January, 1969.

I told

DIMENEZ that the rames of the Cuban exiles involved

in this plan were the following:

ALFREDO JIMENEZ

JUAN VAI DEZ

(first name unknown) Aur, ady Cubats

known

NCO.". I told JIMENEZ that they would

use grenades, poison gas

and silencers.

I reported

that I had received this information from a Cuban

whose last name is SAVeDRa who is a boat

mechanic working for all agency of the United

States Government in Miami.

After giving him this report, JIMENEZ. called

me several times each week during December of 1968,

to find out if I had learned more about this

attempt against

the life of FiDEL CASTRO.

In

January of 1969, I reported to JIMENEZ that the

6.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 7

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TUS UNITED STATES

group had returned, and had failed in their

mission.

To the best of my knowledge, none of

these persons exist, with the exception of

(SAAVEDNA.

In making these reports, I used certain

code words which had been given to me by

JIMENED, and they are as follows:

NOEL

FIDEL CASTRO

EUSEBIO

RAUL CASTRO,

ORLANDO:

..

OSVALDO DORTICOS

ARTURO

-

JUAN ALMEIDA)

(NORBERTO,

(RAMIRO VALDES

These code words have been used by me in

telegrams sent to addresses in Cuba designated

by JIMENEZ, which I have previously furnished to

the FBI.

The telegrams which I sent were

signed with *the code name

"ALFREDO"' and other

names.

These telegrams were only sent to Cuba.

Near the end of 1967, JIMENEZ told me to

make a trip to Cuba with a select group, which

/ included ADOLFO BORGES, and he told me that I

would receive documents in Cuba which would

indicate that a Cuban wanted to defect irom

the Cuban Government.

- Then,

upon returning

Irom Cuba, I should hand over these documents

to the United States Government. JIMENEZ told;

me that this Cuban would pretend to be a defector,

7.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 8

14-00000

- SECRET -

KE:

(BAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN

THE UNITED STATES

and wontd make contact with the United States

Goverment,

but

actually he would be an Agent for

(CIS.)

since I never returned to Cuba,

this plan

nover carried out.

Although he never gave

me the name of the Cuban, I was under the

impros:.ion that it would

be someone unknown in

the inielligence field.

he tuls time, I also remember that vesus

MUZO. He told me that in conversation

WItH LOPEL, I

should try to learn if LOPEZ had

received any information from "BEBE" REBOZO

reliting to the policies of President RICHARD

NIXON, concerning the Cuban situation.

TIMENEZ also instructed me to talk with

MANUEL ARTIME about the Cuban problem.

My last contact with JIMENEZ was at 1:00 AM,

February 20, 1969, at which time he called me

by telephone while I was in the house of ADOLFO?

(BORGES) in Miami. JIMENEZ had told me he was going

to call me on February 14, 1969, at Miami

number 642-9176. I waited for the call, and

since he did not call me, I sent a telegram to

Havana, Cuba, addressed to OLGA RODRIGUEZ, Calle 31 #108;

between first and Second Aventes, Varater o, Ma tanzas,

Cuba.

In the telegram, 1 wrote,

"Await my call

on the 19th.

Regaras,

I sent this

telegram on Sunday, Februiry To, 4969. This telegram

is the code that I have with dIMENEZ, and the code

means that JIMENEZ should call me at 8:00 PM on the

night indicated in the telegram.

During the call

from JIMENEZ on February 20, 1969, he asked me how

8.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 9

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

things were going, and also told me he would be

gone for two months, and that another person

would contact me on

the third or fourth of

darch, 1962, at 8:00 PID, at Miami telephone number

This person is to identify himself

€1ih we code, "Playa Menendez, " ox "playa Salines"

I have read this declaration of eleven pages

and it is correct.

(signed by the source and witnessed by two

Spocial. Agents of the FBI.)

On February 25, 1969, the source made available

three

cards containing printed words in the Spanish

language.

Source advised this printed material

constitutes the code which was utilized by him for

his messages to CIS. He said the cards' were furnished to

him by JESUS JIMENEZ ESCOBAR sometime during November of

1908. At the time they were given to him, thes

vere enclosed in a small, plastic envelope which

had been placed in a secret compartment of the carrying

case for a Schick electric shaver. Source said JIMENEZ

gave him the electric shaver along with the carrying

Case, and demonstrated to him how to open the secret,

compartment.

The Code

cards, contained the following information,

as translated

from the Spanish language;

Attempts

1.-

It you know of some plan of an attack against

or RAMIRO,

have in our country, without delay.

This means that if

9.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 10

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

you know,

for

exampte, of a plan today of an

attack which will be

realized in less than?

O days, you must use this means of communication;

that 1s, call by telephone..

You should use

for each one of our mentioned partners the

(following pseudonyms

FIDEL.

NOEL

RAUL.

• • EUSEBIO.

(DORTICOS

....

ORLANDO

ALMEIDA

- ARTURO;

RAMIRO..

NORBERTO

2.-

at it is about a plan of a long range attack

regarding the mentioned parners or of some other

leader, as long as there is enough time to

maneuver, that is, that the attempt would be

realized after 6 days afterbecoming known to

you, send a cable asking for JULIAN to phone

you,

indicating there is a plan of an attack.

The cable in question would be:

Tell me how you are

DANILO:?

This means you know that an attack against

one of our leaders will be realized with more

than 6 days of anticipation.

Remember that the life of these partners is most important for us.

10.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 11

14-00000

- SECRET -

RE:

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES:

Infiltrations

1.-

He give you a name to cover each point of the

(most used for this end and a name for each one

(of the individuals you know

who are involved

an doing this at this time.

Playa Menendez.

.. ANITA:

Cayo Galindo... • MERCEDES

(Cajo Cruz del Padre. ROSITA

Rio la Palma..

•MIRTA

Panchita..

.. CARMITA

‹Caramatas..

OLGA

Çayo Andros..

Cayo Sabinal.:

Bahia de Cardenas

Bahla de Santa

Clara..

XIOMARA

ANGELA

FLORA

Bahia de Cadiz.

Puer to Esperanza.

Playa Machado.

Gamuza

BLANCA

LUISA

MARIA

TERESA

PILAR!

11.

• SECRET -

---

## Page 12

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

La Colona, • "

Isabela....

....DELIA

• NORMA

Calbarien....•

JUANA

Cayo Anguila.

.ILEANA

JULIO CRUZ.

•MIGUEL

ANDRES ROMERO.

•..PEDRO

ROBERTO

PARSONS

•ERNESTO

FELIPE TORRES.

.... ROLANDO )

RAFAEL LEON.:

•MARCOS

- POLICARPO.

RAFAEL

(GENOVERO MARTINEZ. RAUL

Norte Pinar.

•EULALIA

Norte Habana.

•HAYDEN

Norte Matanzas.

••NILÃ

Norte Las Villas.. LAURA

Norte Camaguey. •

..CAROLA

Norte Oriente.

. ORALINA

Santa Lucia.

. GLADYS

Sierra Morena®

•LUCIA

12.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 13

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Na1s1

•RAMONA

..ISABEL

Nuevitas

(I tabo

Manti.

IRMA

JUANITO PEREZ

CAPI FUNDORA

PEDRO DIAZ.

ELIO GRILLO.

(TORO SAAVEDRA

VILLITA

•JOSEFA

•JESUS

.. CARLOS

ALEJO;

• ELIAS

•JOSE

DARIO

SAJITO

Sur Pinar

•ELDER

"ELDA"

Sur Habana

•SILVIA

Sur Matanzas..

Sur Las Villas:

NERY

•.LILA

Sur Canaguey. i

•CELIA

Sur Oriente..

• VICTORIA

With these fundamentals you can make up a cable

Indicating infiltration - through a determined

point and who would realize 1t.

Example of cable

you could send:

Tell me if CARMITA and MIGUEL are conding the 22nd.

(signed with name possibly IZNAGA)

13.

-SECRET -

---

## Page 14

14-00000

RE:

2.-

3.-

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

This means that JULIO CRUZ will iufiltrate

in the Panchita the 22nd.

The signature,

IZNAGA indicates infiltration.

You should prepare

the cable with the data you possess, for

example at you know only that JULIo

CRUZ will

infiltrate through the Monte de Matanzas and

you do not know the point on land, then you

send a cable

pointing this out, the cable

would be:

(Tell me if MIGUEL and NILA are coming the 22nd.

It it concerns your entry to this country you

should use the names we gave you to cover the

different points and send a cable signed by

ALFREDO.

Example:

Tell me If MIRTA 1s coming. the 14th.

(ALFREDO

This means you are going to infiltrate through

Rio la Palma the 14th.

If, after having

Informed us of your entry something happens

which will prevent you from doing it, send

the cable you have used on other occasions.

Await letter.

DANIEL.:

In case your infiltration or your entry to the

country will be at a place not contemplated in

this code, ask for a call from JULIAN.

To inform you cannot make a contact

When you have a fixed contact for a determined

date

you cannot appear, send the following cable:

14.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 15

14-00000

- SECRET -

RE:

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Happiness on your day.

DANIEL

Requesting Emergency Contact

When you have a problem of utmost

importance to

deal with us and you feel a contact is necessary,

ask for JULIAN to call you. In that telephonio

conversation we will give you date of same.

TO ASk for JULIAN to Call You

Send a

cable saying I will call you such and

such a

date, signed by ALFREDo.

That means' that

(JULIAN should call you urgently. Example:

I will call you the 18th

ALFREDO

Ths method, that is, asking

for JULIAN to phone

you, you will use it for matters we have oriented

-you

on in this code and in those cases in which

-you may have some urgent information not

contemplated herein

Mailboxes In Our

fountry

1: Culia

n020/

1.

CARLOS

FREZ SANCHEZ

Ave

n0201

2. TOSE ANTONIO MARTINEZ PIAZ

-Apto.

6, Marianao

CarTeTTY 8015 Altos

Apto

# Cultu

'E/80 y 82

Marianao

Telephone in our country: 3-5861 ask for JAIME RODRIGUEZ

15.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 16

14-00000

- SECRET -

RE:

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

According to source, on the reverse side of the

cards JIMENEZ had written instructions for the source in!

connection with the investigations he was to make.

This

handwriting was as follows:

[1..

2.-

‹ CIA In Miamt)

Amcricans

ГР.Л.

Teams and zones where they operate now

¡Instructors

Safe Houses

Training Camps

Activities in general

¡Plans

Terminations or new hirings

¡Offices

Latin American movement

State of morale*

Priority:

Personal attacks, Infiltrations and nets

PEDRO LUIS (friend of REBOSO)

¡VILLOLDO

VINAS

ENRIQUE

Know their activities.

Information about them.

VILLAFANA .

JULIO CESAR CANIZARES

DIONS RESPAS TONS

01308-С: 365605

Determine residences.

Where they are.

What they do.

16.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 17

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

-.

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

N THE UNITED STATES

Stay in contact with

ALFREDO CORDERO

NA: 500

relations

Matter of NEGAtE and his redaton to PiPE livenes do

Obtain photographs of yourself with CIA P.A.: that"

you кпо.

Source advised that following his first personal.

Zaranao, Cuba.

no201

Regarding the information concerning "BEBE" REBOZQN

source advised he, the source, is friendly with PEDRO LUIS 21:

(LOPEZ, and 1s in & position to contact LOPEZ regularly,.

inasmuch as LOPEZ. has requested the source to assist him

in bringing a relative of LOPEZ from Cuba to the United

Source said LOPEZ had previously operated a Jewelry

store in downtown Miami, but now LOPEZ plans to open a new

Jewelry store in a Miami shopping center. located at Northwest

Qith Street and 22nd Avenue, in which shopping center REBOZO

has a financial interest.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neithet thy.

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the

property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and its w

conents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

17.*

- SECRET -

a fin sets

---

## Page 18

14-00000

23-08)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

Miami, Florida

March

3, 1969

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

(105-14883)

Title

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Character.

Reference

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

Memorandum, dated and captioned

as above, at Miami,.

Florida

All sources (except any listed below) whose Identities'

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past.

ĐBO

4593/2

This document contains nelther recommendations nor conclusione

of the FEl, It se the proporty

of the FBl and is loaned lo your agency; it and lle contento are not lo be diatribulad outerdo.

your agency.

118-5-14

---

