# 104-10240-10310

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10240-10310

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

J-UNCLASSIFIED

L

SUBICT: (Opoonall

FROM:

RILAN

10: Onican doc

building)

gratica, rooms arabes, on

2.

SAS/ESC

SAs / E08

3.

FEUMAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

JENTIAL

DATE

@TENSION

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

HO

AUCA 10352

FORWARDED

2 ug at

EK

SAS/S0/HH

Raoul

.

10.

1.

12.

13.

15.

KOT

1-02

610 manoes 0

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

8. Is this an

Ambiddly 1

Report?

8-6

Mo.! Reprt

given t A-!.

hy Venezuelan epils.

See attackl

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

8-B-C-B-B-T

Chief, MED

caler, sis

wales of station, SAHAYE

Coter of Starson, Caracas

SUBLEET

DrYOUR/PRENT/Cperational

Bralna son of BaU Aspart

ACTOR REQUIRLO-REFERENC

Aculas Regultad: Hote

DR DOTRACA

: WPGA-9900, 8 JUly 1963

PROCESSINO

anon

X | 10 DUDE NEGUNE

ONLY QUATED

CLA ROCH DODUNI

(EDeLUelA sod ergues that Presldent Bodalo Betancourt 18 in reallty l

arautot binsell who 1a dallbarately trylag to rus the country, thered

explarsion, his reluctence to take tira sition azainst the casainlate.

Toe opinion Is expressed that the "ElbeitIc" lALi 18 COMpOSed Of all

opponenta to tbe regiss and that 11 18 contralled by en anti-doormist

majarity, but that leftiste and Cosarists have corritted aazy acts of

CErTOTIES "NEUTPLIG" the NOTE UI the TALK, Such a MeN 16 not supportod

by sumerons station reports ubich shor tse fill to de s cazualst

directed organization composed principally of members of the Pot. It

abould De noted toat ass of the artsilpal objectives of the comunlato

at present 18 to parsuade lbe public that the PlY does sot cartral the

PAls end that 1t 18 really e grouplug of all forces oppused to toe present

gOTerIseRt uho have had to resort to such sathods because Of tae

undero cratie sature of the Betancourt poverment. Day have enddently

hod SONs RiCOeRs In thIs respect and recenziy the beda of the (CIlesa)»l

24 (110180) 05892128 tlon tald the case offiver that he thought there ver

a many fightlet opponente to the regime es leftists Irvalied lA faul

activitles.

2. Because there are do sany contradIctions and dublous assisptlon

1s the entire report, the statios does sot consider 18 sultable for

Distribution:

018-81 - 00101,

Chief,

8AS

. - 0ОВ, ПАЛАТУ

allion 0. Payto

201-267437

ЭRERT

DATE TYPED

26 J02y 1963

DATE DESMNTONDO

JUL 2 6 1963

": MUCH STARD NO RASCA

ausoncaron

8-B-C-R-3-9

75-9-8

12/00

---

