# 104-10061-10053

## Page 1

nAnAA

1104-10061-10053

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

то

Chias of Station, Parts

INFO.

FROM

HRADAUANTERS DESK

CAN NOSE INDEXINE

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Caref, h

Report on Antonlo RODRIU#& Eaharabe?

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

FET, DIR 39776, I Pobranty 1962

as eã a tea 1158 de bulgar or altadias as tarta dra ropeant is to are lo

CATTER F. BRICHA

Attackerante

Варать (2 00 01.8.0.)

DIstribations

3 - Parla

€. M271:

0 4 120

' CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

7 ть 2962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE DI

12

2 - hE/3 w/att

1

RI

w/att

OFFICE

NE/3

OFFICE SYMBOL

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETI

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

OFFICER

Anne S1lbart

COORDINATING

DATE

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

2011-241928

OFFICER'S NAME

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5 FOR. UBEy 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR :

SUBJECT

: Report on Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal

ARtORio RODRIGUEZ Echazabal was bora la Cuba on 17 August 1913.

Ho has a master'o dograo la agriculture, profossadly bas so rollgion

lo a Mason.

RODRIGUEZ la marriod to Edith JONEs, who was born in

Cuba on 10 March 19171 she la, homever, of Halties origia, bejag the

daughter of a former Hallian Ambassados to Belgiura, and abo la a devour

Eplacopalias. The couple la kaoma to bave three children: & sos who vas

Last reported to be la Havana,. Cuba, & daughter martled to a saas ol

German birth who was employed in the Castro land-roform orgaalsallon

until hia departure for Germaay In Decer ber 1961: and a son, Astoalo

RODRIGUEZ Jones, bora 24 August 1943 al Harass, who mas studyias at

the Icole francaine Intersationalo In Washingtos, D.C. la 1961, This son

has bega reported to be anti-U.S, and to have raquested permalanton of his

lathor to go to Cuba or to another "sociallat" country to codilavo his

aducation.

Antosto RODRIGUEZ Jones resided la Washlagion, D. C. With Yvonne

JONES, his suas and alstor of the wife of Antonlo RODRIQUEZ Ichasabel.

MIss JONES Was bora 10 April 1910 al Antwerp, Belgium, sha was uamarrii

and was a socretary sl the Pan Amariods Hoalth Orgaalzallos. Sho became

• U.S. citisen in 1959: Siaco the Castro rosimo bao casso lo power.

Mias JONES lo sald to bave spoken quira openly for Castro and agalaos the

U.S. Goverament.

RODRIGUEZ lived la Haiti for abour eighteen year a prlor to the

commencement of his diplomallo career, havlar been barred by the Batiots:

goverament from returalnd lo Cuba. Ho becamo a Haitian eitixos and mea

the owner of a Port-au-Priaca meat marker called "Il Ono Blanco". Wher

Castro anoumed power la Cube, RODRIGUEZ loak ones the Cabes Isabasa,

In POrt-RU-PILACe ln JAnUATY 1959 altos the Ballara-appolacod alllelala had

fled to the Dominican Republe, Soar theraaltor bo mes sersed Ambarrado:

to Haiti.

Following hla appointment to the diplomatie post, RODRIQUIZ coalias

to maintais contaci with persons ln opposition to Presidess Duvaller of Hal:

ultizen of Cuba

* NUN LESL

---

## Page 3

14-00000

In late July 1959, Halti was lavadod by a small ficap ol Cabana, sapporadiy

as a prolado to as lavasion of the solghborlag Dominican Repablic. Tho

InCUrsiOn was successfully repollad by the Haltles Government, which

publicly charged RODRIGUEZ with complicity in the rald. RODRIQUEZ ther

cloned the Cuban Embansy and returnod to Cuba after selllag bli privato

proporty la Haiti.

Walle RODRIGUEZ was still in Halti, two atterapto mere mado os his

Iife. He accused the Trujillo regime ln the Domialcas Ropublle and,

Indirectly, the Haltian Goveranient of complicity la those attacke.

la November 1959, MODRIGUEZ wont to Guatemala do Cubes Ambassado:

There, he appeare to have associated freely with pro-Commuaial groups. I.

March 1960, ho was requestod by the Guatemalan Goveramanl to leavo the

country os the ground that he was engaging in activities lalmical to the boat

incoresto of Quatomala.

In November 1960, RODRIGUEZ reported to Karachi, Paklaran, as Cubi

Atr.bassador. His wife accompanied him there and served a bla chias

secratary. Duriag the laltial monthe ol hia tour there, bla closest relallos.

¡a the diplomatic colony were with officiala of the Boiglas Embausy,

presumably so a result of the fact that Bolglum had represented Cuba wben

there was no Cuban representative in Karachl. Durlas 1961, homeras, ble

social contacia wore almost exclusively with Sovlot, satollite and Chinese

Communlat diplomatic personnel:

In lato 1961, whos RODRIGUEZ apparontly had docidad to defect, be

confided to an acqualatance in the diplomatic colosy that ho mas fialshed

with politica and wanted to devote the seat of his life to agriculture. He he:

at the time to go to the Dominican Republle of lo asother, unspeellied souri

Americas sation. At the ilme of his departure from Karachl by alr lor

Germany la early 1962, KODRIQUEZ reportedly made only a very limited

statement at the airport regardlag hla defectioa. The ovost apparantly

received very little, 11 say, press notice la Patiatan.

lanufficient information exlate al prosent lo parmil a decermiastion sel

the genulmonoss of RODRIGUEZ ' dinalfecilos wilh tha Castro regimo, Fo:

reasons which have not as yet been lully reported; the Departmest al State

dented a visa to RODRIGUEZ, apparently after he had mado the declaion le

resiga hle post ln Paklutan. We understand, homevor, that, fallowiag blo

Citizen of tuba

---

## Page 4

14-00000

arrival la Franco la JanuAry 1962, he roceived parmalaalon from I renes

authorities to travel to and reoldo la Marilalque. It apposro that he lali

Fraaco on 31 January 1962 as toulo to Martinique.

Thie sorrico would appreciate having lhe results of any dobrieflag of

RODRIQUEZ by (ranch authoritleg, with particular solorenco to the reasone

for bla realgnation and hla plans for the future.

---

