# 104-10194-10018

## Page 1

104-10194-10018

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIERED AT CIA HEUEWARTERS BY •..

HOUSE SELECT COSMITTLE ON ISSESSINATIONS STAFF MAEBERS

SECRET

FILE: TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

AYERS, BRADLEY EARL

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6JUly 1964 - 300T 1976

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: 55/3

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

1-9-28

DATE

RETURNED

2-9-18

REVILNED BY

(PRINT NANE)

Pate a til

SIGNATURE OF

REVIENING OFFICIAL

NO DOCINENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REVOVED FROM THIS FILE.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

то

don austance

Gass!

Criminals

"DER WILL CHECK

SCLASSIFIFD

CONt

STORANO BOTTOM

iNTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

sery

Heste

NAME AND ADORESS

DATE

Tis. Lennie Baunt

1- F-04 HQ

e in

t, in

tion.

ioils

1AX

like:

rhy

metic it 1.001.1915

(Ro:

are

hich.

pear

1:l5e

INCO

irat

GET 76-190 56161

The man behind the CI's

Cuban operations tells how he

almost became our man

in Havana.

TRIC

ACTION

APPROYAL

СОМШЕЙТ

CONCURRENGE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IAFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

I SIGMATURE

Remarks:

Ritacked in the file

MANT NEVER

WAS

BRADLEY FARL AYERS

Capiain, U.S. Ariny

Tre lint inside account al bon the Cltained

rador Cuban anti-Casie guemito Aphrers at,

¡caon bears in florida and the Pridaas. li

soul find this unernsored accordintaigring)

and cibuiressins! *8.95

CROSES MPLE

iter

Th

tiful

55

this

fier

sh..

be

try

Delo coale book ad s'ir added

Thank

FOLD HERE TO RETUR

FROM:

Pisanel

UNCLASSIFIED

1-87

ra 237

Use prarrous pritions

?

HONT NO

5t-5jH4

CONFIDENTIAL

6liet

SECRET

ikes

rta-

OrS,

tion

•on-

Ices

In-

here

: his.

tile

for

OUR WORDS

F3OM

ARO

Her Eaglish

MHOUSE

rishired tasies

is

"ries "currently

lving in Tunisia. lie has deliv-

crin! himsit do a merry caper

in MURDER AT THE FRANK-

FIST COUS FAIR (Doubieday,

$5 95)

And it is a caper that

has a sharp calling rage. Mon-

Brade

GOD B 0X7S.637

the. Gaininic

Chusch

brada be tade de partication

move: on!.

in lee disuiti issur o!

a Christopher Sire!

Aler

lesbian

is: in the U.S.

Mes great rariess and i

---

## Page 3

14-00000

The Nsshington Me.

atio-Mound

THE WASHINGTC 0ST Sararday. dee: 17,198 D15

CIA Plotted to Blast Cuba Refinery

By Jack Anderson (sinallon leam actually trached!

a Itavana rooftop

within rifle

surd. One of them.

vict come of them dero sur must lia un raily.

Through

The full, fantastle story of range öf Castro.

the Bay

of Ples

has brenjother,

this

But like the

ex. Army captaln manied Brady some

at the

nation's

squad aiso was ley.

802, las emerard from

accret operatives: the dapper

buried for 10 years deep in thei

Icaught and tortured.

under cover. He has given us John Rescill. surged Bill Han

acress. to his notes, documents sey.

"Кір"

Robertson

and a.

Central Intelligence dernes's Refinery Raid

and draft chapters of a book huge

Mexican

fortresslike headquarters near!

Now we have learred of a

he

Is writing about

his raids memberat only 38

"The Big:

Langicy, Va.

All

the

world knows that

ClA plos lo

blow

up Cuba's for tho CIA.

(Indian."

ClA tralner

Cuban

most productise oil perinery.

stormed

ashore on

exties!

•The Cuban experience." ho

Agers sot the agaignment of:

& Cuban

Painstakind preparations

were told us, "has been a plague on;training a tough Cuban cadre:

i made, anú a cummando tram

were

the national corscience os il'in the

swamps

of the

Ever..

brachhead and

cut

was riven Intensive training.

[has bren on mine. I think it's glades and the benches of the.

pieces by Dictator Fidel Cas.i

L'sink U.2 photos so derailed bigh

time that at least part: Keys.

tro's militiamen 10 jears and that they shound every bush.

of the slory

be told."

lie

was

uppscd to.

teach there chouch aurf land.

today. But the ClA has con.

Ma).

felward

Koderick.

Icealed from the world hoe it!

Army engineer on loan to the,

an ClA Arignment

skiil,

underwater

swim-.

continued to send assassina.!

ming,

remolition,

boat hand:

CiA, constructed a mockup of

A former paratrooper, pliot cling and simple survival for.

lion

teams

and

commando.

the plant. He even figured out and

squans against Castro.

demolitinns

expert, _Can. them so lead commandos lilo:

how

mortars

couid

be

preitain

Bit by

bit, stories of these;aimed, then placed by

at in air force Base. mlliond

biow up the mulll..

Falin Air Force

Base,

million doilar refinery.

¡postinvasion sortles are leak imandon in a precise spot and Fla, when he received orders

The story of their night land..

ling out lie have already rei

fired on the run.

ito report to the

Army's Spe-iings in Cuba and the arcat oil:

vealed, for example, how the

But he junker the idea be/cial Activities

Group in

Wash-retinery fizzle- will he told in.

ClA used a swashbuckling un-t

cause a human error of

antinston.

a future rolumn.

derworld figure, John Rosellt finch

U?

make

six

twe

could

send

lic

unsuccessful mortar shell Into an inhabitel ral, psychiarle ard lie detes-

was pue throush physl Capitol Conversation

assassinallon

attempts

upon area. Then the whole plan rasitor examinations for a week.

From the Horse's Mouth

Castro.

junked after

President Ken-ithen he

was hustled

The

over do We have already reported thai:

CIA

assigned

agents,

two poly's assassination:

the

CIA's Cuban

section.

General

Mit-

trusted

Billy

Harvey|

Attorney

John

He have also learned that

Ile was questloned for three chell will rezign from the Cab:

and

"Big Jim" O'Connel, 10th? CIA scallered. 530 bills days

by

direc:

the

murder

CIA

offickais

who,:

inet to run Fresident Nixon's-

missions. around like green confetti. to finally satisfied, provided him 1072

campaign,

operating

AL.

On the first two tries, Rosel finance the clandestine

anti.

witle a

story,

shony

first out vi his former law of.

li's

assassins

sought to

ipoison

stip, Castro

oprrat.cns.

Bales

of.documents

and

ticket

in fice.

Now insiders teil us the

pellets into

Castru's: money

were

delivered

to: Miami.

He artopted the name President is considering Wil

Ifood. The next four attempts: Cuban exile

leatlers

who Danicl

Williams

and

was liam Ruckelshaus, now the en-.

were

made by sniper trams rave no accounting of how assigned in a ClA front called

vironment caar, as. Mitchell's

equipped

with

highpowered; they spent it

• Paragon Alr Service.

During his

Belgian rifles,

exlosives and

Some were stashed by men

The CIA

lodged Ayers and

appearance en the David Frost

two-way callins.

since killed. Other thousands Roderick In a luxurious beach

Show. Mitchell denied our re".

There were midnight power were buried in former pirate house

Key Biscayne.

The

¡boat dashes to sceret landing lairs in the Florida Keys, Still, Io

port that Las Angeies Sheriff

undercover

Arrr.y

men!

Peier Pitches had been sound. -

spots on the Cuban coast and

more

thousands

were strein worked out of a ClA front--

led out about taking J. bagar

machine-gun exchanges in the on the beaches of Cuba Where a columned building with the Houser's job. l'e got the story.

dark

of

night

with

Cuban would-be

patrol boats.

The last assas, bones,

raiders

left

their cover name of benith techni. crom a Whiie House alde

al Enterprises on the south

€ 1971. Beil-MorTaro 39rdicaie. Inc.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

The Bashington Herry-Go-Bound

THE WASHINGTOY MOST Tuenloy, Aprsl27,1078

3313

Telltale Traces of CIA Cache Found

B3y Jack reelerson

However.

ind in former pirate lairs in story end showed us he bonk birt

un his discoverer a sheat of three

the Florida Reja

mallert

My assoclato les Whitten

tonether

with

"'e also checked out mud and krass.

has Just returned from a treas.

Sorret CIA Sile.

his veracly careinly, & sent

The hills were near wraps

jure hunt for buried CIA cash

LeS

Whitten

accompany iil l road map, which Ajero

In the Florida Keys whera pl.

One who perked up his cars him hack to the keys te re said had been used an a wrap.

over the whispere was Bradley cover the ClA money. Vie not iper for

the suitcaro

rates

onco. stashed Spanish

bills.

Ayers, a former Army coplain,

fied the Treasury Departinent, Treasury

recorde

shrew

the

gold.

To Was on loan to the ClA In in general

terins, that all re-tbilis

He found one cache where, 1063.6t to train Cuban assault!

covered

CIA

cash

were

printed

between

Morale PrejApril, 1960, and AuRust, 1938.

turned over to the Trearury.

thousands In molding $20 bills teams. One training site had

There is no way to prove this

had been buried. But sonicone

been krated

Treasure Hunt

was part of the money which

on

Upper Key

the ClA contlauer in provide

had reached the secrot site Largo on land that the Mon.

Whitten,

ahead of him. Ail. Whitten me

County

lax assessor's or pilo slew to an alr sirio noiries that led to the cache carne

¡round

were

siX

ice Identifted as belonging to Upper Key Largo. Caing it aslin part to Ayers from Cuban:

weathered. the University of Mial.

a base

of operationa,

matted $20 bills hiat appar.

they the helped train for the CIA.

The Clid also operated outireconnoltered the dark man.

ently had been dropped about

of a front, called Zenith Tech. grove Shlckets, slugalah con.

Washington Whirl

1200 sards away.

nical linterprises, on the und ais, treacherous swamps or sea

versits's south campur. Thus grass

and crocodile-Infps.pr

Voluntrer Army-Preniden:

In an enrlier column, we re.

the

respected university, wit. crecks where Ajera had once!

Nixon Is seading the opposi.

ported that the Central lutell!.

tingly

or otherwise, provideditrained Cuban commandor.

¿tion in his own proposal Pure

gence

Agency had delivered.

the

hales of $20

sito

for

an

extension

For two days, they rauzgen

volunteer Army-at icast ferr

bils to

Cuban

rourse in Infiltration and dem- through the crecks in a atal.

the next two yours, At o secret

¡ exile. leaders to finance clan.

low-draft 18 foot ailll, starter While House legislatice con-

operntions

against

ayers learned enough from occasionally by the carke

ofference, lie warner (i08' 8e1.

Communist Cuba.'

Mis former trainees to figure crocodiles.

When they

were l treesionni

boardera:

Assassination

Icams,

enho out where some of the ClA convinced no one was tolera.

vates

end the

dralt muy

11220

squads and

commando money might be hidden.

Hieling. they plunged through unlonk popular temporarily. sul

units were sent against Castro told

us he discovered a half. derbrush

50

thick

they in the

long slew, our recom.

after the abortive lays of Pigs buried

sultease full

of mold- couldn't see four feet aheart.

mendallons

extend

file

invasion.

Theso missions ap- ing, mutilated $20 bills.

parently

Wero

halted

after

The

Finally they came upon the fraft for (wn years) will prove

sultease

was in a re- bramble-cloaked

site

where len be right." While House aide

I Prisident

Kennedy's assasst. more spot that he was confi. Ayers said he had discovered leur

Flanigan

explained in

ration. But the CIA continued dent wouldn't be discovered. the suitcase. The soll ut ine the leaders that "A short fall

sir slip Infiltraton ieams into lle took nue a dozen bllls tolhiding place had been turrediet 100.000

ment

Is expected"

Cuba to kather intellisence.

make sure they weren't coun lup and alited for. 10 yards to text year.

He

described thie

The ClA pald all expenses, terfeit.

Banks

apparently,

in

cash.

redeemed

ail, all directions. The underbrush administration's plang o

E.П.

luge but two badly weathered $20 and sea grass

were trarapled legurage volunteers by offering.

were turned

over to bille

as If by many feet

ifinancial Incentlves, Ireiuding

exile leaders, who save no aç-l

Then Ayers' house was mys

The

sultcase

tuli ol cur-la 35,000 benus to those

ivunting of how they spent It.

Itertously broken Into and rec-i

rency was gone. Disappointed, iwil! reenlist for combat duty.

There

were

whispers

that ords

of his find were taken.

they combed the area. Within But be warned this

"Tails

sumo money had disappeared Fearing the ClA or Cuban ex-

la quarter mile, Whitlen spci imean cuts in other vital areas :

¡ into

private bark

accounts, iles

watchig him,

he

ted

a tattered 5º9 blil. Ajers in toe Defense Deporment'

that other thousands were bur. dared not return to the cache. I found two more, then Whliten

@ 19.1. Boil-be Cluse Bradleble, bic.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Jack Anderson

JFK Dead: Haled

Livi

Cuban Oil Raid

THE SUPPRESSED STORY

can nut; be trid of how the

Contral Intrilicence Agency

organized a Cuban exile raid

on cuba's key oil refinery in

19i3 but aborted ll after the

assassination

of

I'resident

Kennedy.

lasiders sar the corporate

oil giants.

hoping eventually

to

recover their property in

Cisa, broucht quire pressure

to quash any raids upon ro.

fineries.

Jalinson,

k'ho

canceled the raid after

AYERS ron off simulated

raids

near

Card

sound

drainst a local Southern Bcll

micronase facility

with

hish

smuril!

fence.

Other

nights, he shared black beans

and rice.

drank auld sinoked

"10d" sith his Cuban radre.

The raging recruits grade

ually became a dichting team.

for firsthand experiener.

he

secretly accompanied tro in.

filtration groups on missions

to Cuba.

sis. deanedy in

the

White House,

was close

to Texas oil interests.

se have learned the dra.

malic

detalls

frem

Bradley

More a 36ycar-old

former

Arms

captain,

who was se.

lected by thie

CiA to train

Cuban

exiles for Intiltration

and assault missions includ.

ing the refinery fald in Ma-

tanzas province.

have

checked

out

Ayers' story

with

our own

sources,

who condirm he is

correct about naines, places

and dates. From a group of

pictures, Agers also was able

10

pici

out linmariarly in

Cil

undercover

operative

who we knew had been in.

voived

in

the CIA raids

against Cuba.

The rugged Ayers, a for-

mer Army ranger Instrucior,

trained the retivery raiders.

The

recruiling for the mis.

sion had already been com-

pirted

before

TiC

WaS

signed to the project. ClA of

ficials

took

him

by motor

launch through swampy fiver-

giades canals and across the

open sea to secluded Florida

Keys to meet the recruits.

Avers and the ClA men se.

lested Palo Allo lies, Upper

Key Largo and Card Sound

the

edge of the Pier-

§lades

as

trainiug

sites.

•Most of the Cubans." said

•yers,

"sere

bank

clerks.

busboy's.

waiters. musicians,

laborers, mon

who had fied

to the United Siates.

MIany

had never

fired a wcapon.

They were disorganized and

undiscipilned.

I 5o% the Job

of reorganizing tho training

program."

"It'o went on a commer.

clally

rissed

trawler.

'cover" tessel!" he sald.

"I's

ran hlackout under a quarter

moon, tonina a 1:20 launch, a

high-powered mberglass

cout.

"We eschancest licht sis

nals

with

the

partisons

ashore in Plear del Rio and

Inunched lito

rubber boats.

T'lie seam made contact with

the parisans. and we pirked

up a

wounded

ninn

shod

been a prisonor of Castro.

thp

Caban

p'artisar.s

we're carcless with the lichts.

"After no got the wounded

man into a rubber boat.

were discovered by a Surice.

type patrol crate with spot.

lights. We covered our with.

(rawal

with

machineguns

froin the 1:20 hual. Althonch

ne 80ok casualties, sc finally

ful back lu the trailer. Uur

boats were pretty well shot

up.

"On the may home, We saw

a Cuban fishina craft flyin! a

distress flag and found it had

a load of refusers. He took

them on board."

second portic lo carhe

supplies for agents already in

Cuba was less crontfit. Fi.

nay.

in

septemher.

1903,

avers was insiructed by thie

CiA to mabe detailed trains.

Ing plans for the relincry

raid.

He was given specific or

der's not

in land

on Cuba

himsels during the raid. But

he was too emotionally in.

voired

with

the

(unans"

cause lo staj' out and wrore

himself into

the plans. "Je

sore all on a live-for-loday,

tomorrass-re-die philosophy,"

he explained.

But on the day of the final

rchcarsal. President Kennedy

was killed, and the CIA or-

dered Ayers to shut down the

operation. "I sas in a sore of

trauma."

said the swashbue.

Instructor.

"I

made

trips to Washiniton to pirad

the

cause

of the freedons

finhters with the minor nfil.

cials 1 knew. But I just got

disappointed and angrs."

Finally in

October,

1069,

resigned from active

duty eith a lone statement of

principle

his

superlors.

"As

aadd

i and.

dirt.

I had

been tavelt

shoulin't gurstion

political

or

diplomatic

action."

he

wrote.

"But as a freethink.

ins

Merlein

citizen,

couldn't sardinate

my

duty.

country

was 110

longer playing to win.

ind

my faith in the coals to which

decleated

my life

shakon."

€ 1971. Deil-SicClure Sandienie. 500. a

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL,

(Then Filled In)

INVITEE APPROVAL

DATE

YOUR

REFERENCE:

CASE NO. :

TO

ATTN

:

SUBJECT

6 JUlY 1954

2302ú (USA)

366095

: AYERo, Bradley E.

...

1.

This is to inform you that clearance is granted to invite

Subject to Headquarters for interviews.

This 1s not a clearance for Subject's access to classified

material or information.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

11. 0.@see

chief, Personer Sectity Division.

Thos

arou

ailind too a sono

sangrating ora

5.88 11736

CONFIDENTIAL

15.431

---

## Page 7

4-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE

YOUR

REFERENCE: 23826

CASE NO. :

366085

:. 10 August 1964

DDP/WH/SA

(USA)

TO

: Director of Personnel

ATTN

* MMPD

SUBJECT : AYERS, Bradley Earl

1.

This is to inform you that Subject has been approved for the

appointment specified in your request under the provisions of

leadquarters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including access to

classified information through TOP SECRET as required in the

performance of duties.

2.

Unless

within 120 days,

120 days, this approval becomes invalidr entrance on duty

3. .As purt of the entrance on duty processing:

A personal interview in

the Office of Securlty must be arranged.

A personal interview is not necessary.

Please advise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620

when Subject enters

on duty.

4.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

.4:l: Seline

Chief, Personnel Security

Division

10-6, 1173

CONFIDENTIAL

(5)

---

## Page 8

14.00000

26.60000r 19E4

SUBSCER liqualified 1031/ 1611011

TO:

inpar tant of ire romy

niasblastoa, D. C. 20315

1.

i, trauloy is, ayors, caucaln, anfanery, 070210, beiel, carder

ry unullfled roshnatlon sica and army sindet

Lio ¡ravIaIOns of jeculon

LII, Ni 635-120, to bo otiuchivo 20 Loconvor 196d.

c1v1l1an lifo and tho pursult of privito entorprise..

I unorstand 63a1 tils sossenaten, 10 accopuni, will bo ac. ejed

undar ino sorsude condicions, ane trut i will

us pirrisnoil a diachargo car-

tiscato as doveralnod 19 liea:quartors, copurtront ce the arey.

Frasant ruty

attion rachine bon, l. bos sualement la arny dozent

Joint jupport Greup (50-7719).

I do desire apucinement in do Unlien Destos irny insorve. ip

pilcision itriechau.

coulcal axininacion raporta, ibascard iormo dé aul 89,

2222,80

furnishon st & 1avor duto.

•. :

si::

}

28

076210

Distribution:

.Orif s1 - Add

1 - c/MPD

1 - Agen)

I - Suspense

10.3

AB/MPUANDICUER: md/2735(26üct6i)

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

GriNCE-OF TIR CONPTROLLER

FINAL CLEARANCE RECORD

PINANCE DIVISION

FISCAL DIvIStO.

IMPLOYEE

SERIAL. NO.

366085

OFFICE OF ABSIGNMENT

ATERS, BRADLEY EARL

DDP/SAS

REASON FOR CLEARANCE

RESIGNATION

INTENDED LEAVE

orhea (Specier, SeparatIon

rtn to

parentsve

VERIFICATION

OR

CERTIFICATION OF OFFICIALS

CERTIFY

THAT

REVIGOES

TME RICOROS OF

ETHIONINT

AND, FACIAT AS INDICATRO, TME IMPLOYCE NANCO IS CLEARED

OR NAS JATISFACTORILY DISINARCIO MIS OOLICATION TO

THIS COMPONENT.

ROOM NUMBER A BLOG.

INSURANCE BRANCH, 0P

2025

R & S

CENTRAL PROCESSING BRADEM, OF

1D-70

CLEARIO EY

Norma Sue Carpenter / 8fc

Ann. De Board / gfo

MAN LIORARY, ORA

3d F1-159

Ann Gladue / gro

LIBRARY.

OCR (LORRUDRE

tain)

CREDIT

UNION. 0P

1J-33, Hqs

Marlene Huber L gic

REGISTRAR. OTA

lIST

FISCAL DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

GH- 4408

343

Hqs

Ex- 3656

South :

4E -50

John bilion

x Exit Interview

CONMENTS (DARA PerIniMinA do ITy

CENTONE CURE SHER IDON HEALE

FORWARDING ADDRESS

CHECA

NAILING

ADDRESS

(ll orher

chan

above)

CERTIFICATION. AND FORHARDING ADDRESS OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE

ростаєд.

STREET, COPY, ZONE, STATE

1020 N Owen St,

Stillwater, Minnesota

1: 49ER, STREET, CITY. ZONE.

STATE

D

I CERTIFY

THAT

TO THE DEST DI IS ANOMLIDGE AND RELIEF.

FOR A9D TMAT ! AN HOT

OF MY CONNECTION DITH THE

ALL

TO FAN UNT PO STATES SEVER MONY MASSORY RETURNERSORS

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

CERTIFICATION (Thia fora is invalid usehoue cursorised signaturo)

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE SEIN!

LISTED COUPONENT OFFICIALS ANO THOSE LISTED ON FOAM 21A (OS their deniancen) MAVE

SIVEN POSITIVE VERIFICATIDO DE CERTISICATION THAT FUE SEPARATING EMPLOYEE HAS DISCHARGED MIS OBLIGATIONS TO THI

COMPONENT.

RETURNED

ANY FUNDS

OR

PROPERTY

"NICH HAS BEEN ISSUED TO HIM, OR SATISFACTORILY ARRANGED

SETTLEMENT OF

ANY INDED'EINESS TO THE AGENCY.

DATE

SIGNAT BE DE AUTHORIZÃO OFFICES OF DIFICE

TITLE

FORM

DC, Army, Navy: Marine üorps Br, MPD

cocui

14-89

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

14-00000

! CATAL: ,C-3 ! 3 1on 11

tarrie

14:2

MIC

35

Tort 'ver, inlircton, Virciir

,...

115. Fe01t

trono acando de laterop

ir

parale

tirar?

Minui ca's

!./:

fou rei a do dia isso é neces de dor, ceo sed ceo and ig

el meninde Gosteis

Temperou.

1202820) R20t42n

Att 1100f. id9'11l1%:

331 10018 1m 11) 0 10.000.

3

--

11

cortact

-ial: trent inflige:

Perschute

.l v

41

cie direi dia Breed.

Ca aos Mores combin

"et"! Det eve lodal:

arrer Ait AP:

"istor

Pedite

e rears e

nicola,

16.

116-

127

1: 111160. !'*

"",'

1!1.

is!

in"1l

n: Contat,

•!' irvoriuct

1':4

L4c5=118

nomister

sit!

vt:

20 5/29-223

TATI MIC

Tatir

M/4

11.

victor in iriter

"/a

110.33

÷ 1r053

99:

•r:3

lear

gentios

14:7,

..,

All-r 4"

-1?..,

DI)

Ame renten

KEP:'RI OF IRANIFER DE DISCHANGE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

• (When Fillel Ia)

DLS:

22 DEC 64

nES

NOTIFICATICN OF PERSONNEL ACTION

8. NAME (LAST.F1RST-LIDD1E)

366085

AYERS BRADLEY E

I SITURE CE PERSONNEL ACTION

SEPARATION RETURN TO PARENT SERVICE

FUNDS A

Y.T0 Y

IF TO Y

• 10 18

IF 10 05

FIELD

FORIARD OPERATIONS STATION - INWAVE

PARAMILITARY BRANCH - SECTION 111

RESISTANCE, CRE INDEP POL GROUPS

17. POSITION TITLE

PARAMIL OF

14. (LASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, 016.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

MI

0136.11

18. REMARKS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 1S. CATEGORT OF EMPIOTMENT

115,641

7. COST CENTER NO. CMARGEABLE

5135 1164 m00n

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

MILITARY

TO. ISE JA CTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

UMWAVE

12. POSITION NUMBER

iJ. SERVICE DESIGNATION

1053

16. GRADE AND STEP

D

11. SALARY OR RATE

03 0

782.o0

18. 261100: 53. Earley. [21.

CODE

Code

46

30

- ZB. ATE EXPIRES

=3.

SS. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

2Z. SiATION

Z3. ISTEGREE

24. Hidairs. | 75. DATE OF BIRTH

• 20. DATE DE GRADE

EliC

CODE

CODE

Code

н.0.

103/07/35

но.

29. SPECIAL

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

| 21. SEFARATION

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

REFERENCE

DATA CODE

CODE

TYPE

NO.

EOD DATA

pooronn

38. SEAN. COMP. DATE: 17.104G. COMP. DATE: 3B. CAREER CATECORY

39.

FEGLI / MEALTN INSURANCE

DA

IR.

COCE

CODE

O. WAIVER

"HEALIN INS CODE.

41 * V

1.1..

yo.

121. DAlE OF LEI

но.

DA

33. SECURITY

RED. NO.

38. SEX

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

rest

10.19992MO09 SeRvice

AIN SERVICE LESS THAM 3YESI

17. LEAVE (AT.; 13.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FERMETECUTENT

C002

NO TAX EXEMPTIONS

2. 10

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NO TAX STATECODR

POSTED

SIGNATURE OR SITER /UTHENT'CATION

182/28/647 186

F09N

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

AROUP 1

100:2:3898 138

174.04

19.5301

When Fled la

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

(Dhan Filled In)

DATE PREPARLO

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

• SPRIAL NUMHER

NATURE OF

PERSONNEL ACTION

SL0A0K.0R KOTUE: i0

PALET ANC

TO V

V! TO CF

B. FUNDS

CE TO v

CF TO CF

BRGANILATIONAL DEBIGMATIONS

(i. ö. FIlll)

SALING LA CHAALOTIC. III

POSITION TITLE

1, 250 1

A. EFFESTIVE DATE REQUESTED' S.

CATAGORY OF EUPLOIMENT

• AT

10

i.

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGI.

AELt

.

dit wealt respired to

25.20

10. LOCATION OF OKFICIAL STATION

,?.

POSITION NUMBER

19.

CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

1055

11. CLASJIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LR, O6E.) 15. OCCUFATIONAL SERIES

AND STEP

0136.11

07

17. SALARY OR

RATE

' 782.10

ПЕМАНКУ

SIGNATURE

OF

REOUFSTING

OFFICIAL

DATE SIGHEO

180.

SIGRATURE DE CAREER SERVICE APPROVINE DATE SIGNED

OFFICER

19. A::0980. 10107. 21.

COGE

Coot

SPACE BELOW

CFFICE CODING

TWENTY

16.56

28. NiE 11P:965

00.

29.

SPECIAL

DEFERENCE

FOR EXCLUSIVE

USt.

UF TE

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22.514: 04

23. INFEIS.

test

13 29 5 15 28 66 303

2

03122135

•=.

10. SEDAGA-SON 38. 20000::. 19. 10009.

PER. Son: 05151

.0.

SETSEMINT DA:D

Geor

23. 591.91?.

9E0. 4'

or sit

EOD DATA

35, VET, PAEFERENCE 134. SEC%.

CDiER, DATE 197, IANE.

CONg,

coor

то.

39. CARCER CATIGORY

CARiBEST

ccor

PiD: 19647

Kese's Cy"

*1.

enor

PREVICUS GOHERNMINI SERVICE DATA

•ЛЕНО: СА?.

• NO PRET'OUS SERUICE

в ліс.

1-•:

2-0.

15. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATIC

DATE APPROVED

Tean SH

12.21. 14 10t

0as01E

4. 58

1152

SECRET

GAOUP 1.

111;

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

PILLBO 188

DATE

REPORT OF SEPARATION

1. NAME INANT. PIXAT, MIDDLE'

AYERS, BRACISY SARI.

0 78.210

a OFFICE

2 DATE OF DININ

3. JOB TITLE

- US ATIE GRADE

NA:

8. DIVIS:ON

Inatructer (PIShE

7. DRANCH

CaPtatA

-ABASENTY COMPUTATION DATE,

D. ORTL8T RESTONATION

Date of Assignment to cIA!

I2 IS DECETRAEVIREA

Manhristentani

9 Decamber 1968

TO REMARNO

It col santangelo

Millzary Specialty - Picht Inatructor (71542)

Reason for Icaving - Return to Parent EcIvice

Captain Ayers stated that his military apeclalty was fully

utilized, his grado was consistont with his job and his reditions

with co workers vere good.

subject also stated that he felt his

assignment required an

active duty military person.

ALUMATUAR OP BUABAVIOGO

18.

1s

UI9 NOT RECONMENURO FOR RE-EMPLOYMEXT

IS NOT SECOMMENDED FOR RE-EMPLOYMENT

10.

_jIS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR

?. A. SANTANGELO

It colonel, Int, uSA

BIOMATURE DO PERSONNEL RELATIONS OFFICEN

SIGNATUAR OP ALACEMENT DERICKS

Tony no 97l are trea

SECRET

103

---

## Page 14

14.00000

Feltry

---

