# 104-10072-10291

## Page 1

104-10072-1029

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-

*=

DISPATCH

CLASBIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

BECRET

MARRED YOR INDEXIDO

16-8 MIl

Chiofo of Stations, (Carican,

ort-au-prince,

Par 10}

08 Baoo, Dan 19r0 do 09 Caba 20300CFP

MOJECT

Chaos of Station, Banto peater: A 1

Baitian Exilo

Activition 1n the Dominican Republic

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERELACES

ACTION REQUIRED:

None, FYI

REFERENCE:

LPar1a/8128, 10 June 1966, or el.

NO IADEXICO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIEQ.DEDT

CAN IVODE INDEXITO

WICROFILM

Prior to hin departure from

the Dominican Republic

for fario, Ellarty-l provided

on Haitian exile

activition in the Dominican Republic.

In v10n of the preant

notlvition of Haitian exilos 10 Parle, an raported by lati

information 1a now baing forwarded lor background.

2.

On 30 May 1966÷

Eugerry. net Godefray

ray boscoso, a

whito Haitian who claimed

he livegain venozuela where ne

pronident ol

Partido Unido.

ELUBFTY-1 tas taken to noot

MOSCOSO at the Hotel Comercial.

in Santo Domingo by Gorard Max

LAFONTANT, a Haitian Communiat, M0sC080 provided the following

information:

a .

There

aiB QO Haitlang

aro ready to participate

in a new

-Haitt.

is venezudia

who

D.

Thore are about 200 Baltian axiled is

Doninican Bapublic who

Ax'e

prepared for

the

alasion.

Thore

aro 80,000 HaltJane

living

1. 1)

Dominican Republic.

thes

MOSCOBU IN

# founder

of the Maliled PoX,

was socretary of political natrere for tha

Fand

party.

Diatribution:

12 i Chiof,

Vebioru Losphore DiviatOn

} - Chioi

1

of Station, LCaracsa7i6-12

- Chior of Station, DPort-eu-PrincoJ16-8

Chter of Station, Party To ouT touck

2

- F1165

15-4

7- 385

ABJ

IS COPY

3 19G8.

BENITA 14

NAD AUWBER

22

FDCA-5545

CLASSHICATION

SEP

1 'Boptonber 1966

MOS FILE QUESGEA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodtice

1a938s

280-8-38

RS

SWOTIONGCIDES

9934

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSI

COMPINUATICIN OF

DISPATCH

BECRET

DISPATCH SYMBDI AND MUMICRA

10OC4-8048

In Venozuola, bo lo a physiolan.

Ho has an

Intinate relationhip with Venezuelan Presidont Raul

LEOrI, and clained that lord gave hin a lector or

introduction to former Doulnican treaddent Juan bouch

and to the Venozuelan Cona::! General In Santo Doadngo.

MOSCO8O was trying to arrange a nesting with

then Providional Prolident HOCtor GARCIA CODOY CaCerOu

in in offort to vin BARCIA CODOY's promise that ho

onst the prosaure againot Haitian onileo in the Doulaica..

Bepublic and,

11 ponsiblo, provent the lattere espulaion

to Ha1t1.

Moacoso did not criticize the expulalon of

several Baitiana by dARCIA GODOY, but wanted te viali

the Frovidional President to prevent future action

The Hastian novement in Venezuela received ab

offer

In April 1986 Iron Baltiana Ilving In Cuba of thel:

GOrVICeS In

any future lovadion of Balti.

The offer bad

beer: rejected

because

any

invasion force mould da baeli

all!

natlonallatic

1.00

face only

after

public,

and would raveal its true

the invagion

attained succese aod took

full control

the Governeur.

мозсозо,

who adultied

to being a Marxist, sald he alao underatood that

connected

with Marrian vould nast vith u.e.

and

souid

therefere be dooned. The u.".

wa8

stupid, but not that atupid.

4080080 said he had met with Obaldo BoA del

novarie, a member of the Doubicon Connuniet Party

(PCD), on 30 May

(statton) Comment.

NOA VINITEL

10 March 1966, aud received

inetructione shile

there to contact forder Dominican Constitutionalist

military leaders

who are assigned to diplomatle posse

in Rurope.)

Moscogo cald he wanted to moes bartha MARTINE?.

mambor. of the human Righte

Compiseion, to dewand

protection for Haition exiles in the Donioiced Repurly.

MOacos0 would like iu take the Baltiain

VONGRUALA, DUE 9001ET00 1141

most of then more to:

techrically propares

for the high loved of twing in

Vanquele.

This fari posed a probion.

3.

UN 31

May 1060, Larry-y

and LAFONTANT AGULA ROT

the dotel Conarcis; W0sC030 made the

commenta:

The Ud, Governsent will

Dictator Francois DUVALIlA and Install tbolt oen man.

b.

The regine in Cuba do i dictatoralip; tho

adainlotration of dovernaental affaire la very LuôgIdoct.

booting,

LAFONTANT tOld MOSCOND tha:

anY, a Cuban who obtained esplosives for bin to use

in the firet

Invasion againgt Haiti, was Iiving in the booinica

Republic.

LATONIANT dOSCrIDOd REY ES A LOTROT COLLELOINCOT OF

dida mana

Devolutionary Movement (Li-1J4) had on

him (REY) 08 boing

• FarAck agont, bur this vas sot true.

CAD

obtain oxpiodivos within 24 hours after the requeat

---

## Page 3

14-00.000

CLAOBIFICITION

•CONTINUATIEN OF

DISPATCHI

[CA 6648

On 10 Juno 1000, (EkTY-1 Bald that time had

nanod Bone vious to be in

oharge of the Bastion underground

novoRant in the DoulDions

Aapub110.

VIQUA MAN DABOO ON 6

Juno at tie Hotel Comoroinl.

ko scono planned to leavo for

•Venesuels

On 8 June 1906.

-- ...=

Sadieroes

---

