# 104-10186-10229

## Page 1

104-10186-10229

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATI

TON

HON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This mereral Mucine lifermaliot almung lhe National Delones ol lhe l'alled Blairs tilhla the teanine of the soplodeço Late. Tila

In C'AC sore 19s and 194, the cranemieshon of merelation ul which in any manner lo sa unauthorized pardo la pronlalted by law.

SECRET

NO FORFIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Ento

BENITEZ GImenez

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/01236-64

DATE DISTR. : 8 October 1964

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

FIELD REPORT NO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personalit

information provided by the source

and includes supplementa

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals

mentioned in the

personality reports without first

checking with this Agency:

n officia

3

1

Headguarters Comments

office of the Cuban newspaper Hoy; he was in charge of Habana

sales.

2.

Included in

a report dated 5 October 1962, was a list of Cuban.

diplomatic couriers who frequently traveled to and from

Santiago.

Erico BENITEZ Gimeno appeared on this list and was

reported

to have been born in 1925 in Cuba. He carried diplomatic

i carried di stomatic

passport number 217/61 and was single.

The records of this Agency reveal that Enio BENITEZ Gimeno

left Montevideo for Santiago on 21 January 1963.

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

I AIR

REP CLUCLANT CINCSO E TENS

Nate. Field distributon indrated by "#".)

I NSA

TAsX

I OCR

FBI 2

INFORMATION REPOR

AN SA LOB

CI/LIA

HIT/SA/ MOB

MINERMADR

2

CI/REA

157

INFORM

LEX CANADA!

LEYBRITISH

IL/HASH/BRVI

TO NERERORT

7.x - 1818

NO: PROJECT (AMMUG, 1)

CSCI-316/01236-644

SA:CI

!!!

WAVE

RIDLAN

TOTALIAN/SA i (1).

WE 1 (2), CI 4,

COOPDINATIN:

RID 1

swk

208

336275

HIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01:36-64

4.

5.

-2-

In a report dated 3 March 1963,

anfoirlesal Trinidadian liaison

service reported that Ento BENITES

Gimony arrived in Curacao

from Habana on 15 Oituber 1962, and left for Port oi Spain,

Trinidad, on 16 October 1962.

He departed Trinidad on 18 October

BENITES was born on 22 August 1925 In Cuba and His uccupation

was listed as diplomat.

An 8 March 19G3 report stated that Endo BENITES Gimeno arrived 1n

Tokjo un

18 February 1963.

o. A report dated 15 warch 1965 statca that enio BeNItel Gimeno, a

Cuban national, arrived in Colombo on 11 March 1963, for a three

day visit at the Cuban Embassy:

7.

On 3 May 1963, It was reported that Ento BENITES Gimeno transited

Karachi enroute to Colombo for New Dolhi.

8. An fificial Jamaican Servicel in a report dated 12 June 1963,

reported that Ento BENITEZ Gimeno is a Cuban diplomatic courter

who arrived in Kingston from Habana via Mexico on & June 1963;

left for Turonto on 18 June 1963. BENITEZ was born on 22

August 1925 111 Santiago de Cuba!

9.

The following information concerns the travel of Endo BENITEZ

Gimenez during 1961:

16,

20,

21 February 1964

22 February 1964

23 February 1964

26

February

1964

28

February 1964

23

March 1964

15

April 1964

16 April 1964

17 April 1964

20 April 1964

9

July 196-

- Arrived Brussels from Amsterdam

- Departed Brussels for Vlonna

- Arrived Rome

- Arrived London from Paris

- Departed Lundon

- Traveled to Mexico from Habana

- Depurted Copenhagen for The Netherlands

- Departed The Netherlands for Brussels

- Departed Brussels fro Vienna

- Arrived London from Paris

- Arrived Karachi from New Delhi

NO FOREIGN

ECRET

DISSEM

ZIAR

---

