# 104-10106-10175

## Page 1

104-10106-10175

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 01/25/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10106-10175

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: MAYER, ALAN E., EO/NPIC

TO : SPECIAL ASSISTANT, DDS&T

TITLE

: REQUEST FROM HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

DATE

08/09/1978

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

: MEXICO CITY

IMAGERY

HSCA REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: JFK38 : F32 : 1993.07.20.18:46:16:28033(

IRI - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10106-10175

---

## Page 2

FORM NO.

I MAY 56

238 •

REPLACES FORM 35-1

WHICH IS OBSOLETE

SEC. CL./ ORIGIN

DOCUMENT CONTROL MF&19:

CONTROL NO.

DATE OF DOC

DATE REC'D

DATE OUT

SUSPENSE DATE

CROSS REFERENCE OR

POINT OF

FILING

TO

FROM

SUBJ.

ROUTING

DATE

SENT

COURIER NO.

ANSWERED

NO REPLY

...

---

## Page 3

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

1

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

2

3

6

Rodger Gabrielson, OLC

Than sen th ate, he

stated"

Natipid Mayer this data to

take no furtis action Are

77 Cum

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

I SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attached is the response to your oral

request. You will note that the dates of

photography available do not fall anywhere

near the time frame you requested.

Please

let me know what action you wish me to take

on this photography.

Hal Clark

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

SA/DDS&T, 6E46, Hqs., x7655

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FONES NO. 237

Use previous editions

1-67

DATE

17/8/78

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 4

TO:

2

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

SA/DDS&T

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONGURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. TCS 7055-78

Copy 1

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

Executive Officer, NPIC

Room 6N100 - Bldg.

213 x3371

DATE

19 Aug| 78

Handle Via

TALENT-KEYHOLE

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

Warning Notice

Sensitive Intelligence Sources and Methods Involved

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 5

HANDIE VIA TALENT-

KLYHOTE CHANNELS

ONLY

TOP SECREF RUFF

TCS 7055-78

AUG 9 1979

Copy 1

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Special Assistant, DDS&T

SUBJECT

Request from House Select Committee on Assassinations

(U) In response to your request of 26 July 1978, we have 1o-

cated two coverages of Mexico City. The first is an unclassified air-

craft mapping mission taken on 8 February 1967. This coverage is

clear, large scale, 9 x 9 format imagery which

covers all of Mexico

City proper.

this coverage will not hold up to magnification.

We have in our possession 49 frames of a duplicate positive of this

2. (TSR) Also, we have found that there is good quality KH-9

imagery taken on 10 March 1973. This consists of two frames of dupli-

cate positive imagery.

(U) Please let us know what disposition you would like us to

make of this imagery. We can either send copies to you or have someone

look at it here.

blan

2. Maze

ALAN E. MAYER

Executive Officer, NPIC

Distribution:

Copy 1 - SA/DDS&T

GLAESIFICO BY 647295

front Boneral

t. 11972, !

107. 13

LES CORNER

TOP SEGRET- RUFF

HANDLE VIA TALENT-

KEYHOLE CHANNELS

ONIY

---

