# 104-10119-10099

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10119-10099 L: D 2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Memorandum

Chief, Personnel, security Division,

WHROUGH :Chief, Employee Activity Branch/PSD/Os

FROM : H. R. Dugan/FAB

DATE:

14 Novenber 2562

SUBJECT: HUNT, Everette Howard (#23500) - Wife's Possible Employment

by Spanish) Embassy.

REF :

Memorandum dated 11/7/62 from Subject.

52

1. Subject, Chief, R&P/DODS/DD/P, who has (Army) cover, indicates

that his wife, Mrs. Dorothy L. Hunt (#35576), has been employed by

Communications Consultants International (OS-NR) waich firm does public

relations work for the Spanish Embassy.

The firn's contract is to be

cancelled soon and acquaintances at the Spanish Embassy have suggested

to Mrs. Hunt that she help them on a part-time basis "doing translations,

statistical research and occasional letters for the (Spanish Ambassador)?4

Subject Indicates also that most of this work would be done at home and

that, with Agency concurrence, his wife had worked for the Argentine 24

Ambassador in Tokyo during 1955-56. Subject requests Security approval

for his wife to accept employment with the Spanish Embassy, «There 15 no .

Indication that the request has been coordinated with the Chief, DODS.

cover objections to

2. Mr. (Rowles) Central Cover Group, advised that there were no

the proposed action.

3. Memorandum dated 1/24/57 to DC/PSD Irom Bruce Solie in Subject's

flle indicates that the employment of Mrs. Runt by the Argentine Embassy 24,

133 in Takyo had been approved by the Security Officer (In TokyO)37

, Subject's

file indicates that he has been a continuing seaurity problem because of

a tendency to disregerd regulations and established procedures. OS File

#35576 on Subject's wife Indicates that she

246

4. The proposed employment of Subject's wife by the Spanish Embassy

unless for operational reasons, appears to be incompatible with subject's

oye in addition, although Mr. Hunt has official cover, hi.

Ageney edita be ascertained with resultant embarrassment to the Subject,

the Agency or the nation. Accordingly, It is recommended that Subject's

HR Dugan

Dugar

115/62

in

Gorgot

aloN

---

