# 104-10326-10099

## Page 1

1104-10326-10099

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHENO

93-1832904

DISSEM PER SOP #104.

SENSIND:

PAGE:

SECRET

FRP :

CONE: CIC/LA

INFO: CIDORECORD, CTC/IFC, CTC/TA, FBIOUT, MDSX,

NHTC/LA, ODPD, FILE, C/CIC, C/GTC, C/LA/RB5, C/PCS, CIC/OG, CTC/ TRG,

CTC/TRGPSB, DC/LA/RB5, LA/AGCN-2, LA/CCG-2, LA/MCGMXB-2, PCS/CL, PCS/ ID,

(18/P)

93 1832904

MSP

TOT :

PAGE

001

200551Z

MAR

93

CIA 900219

SECRET

NOFORN NOCONTRACT

2005512

CIA/DDO 900219

TO:

PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

ATTN: MR. ANTHONY BETZ, CHIEF OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM UNIT

WARNING NOTICE - INTELLIGENCE SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED -

NOFORN NOCONTRACT

FROM: CIC/LA INFO LA/CCG

CIR 316/01013-93

SUBJECT:

DEMOCRATICO"

ANTI-CASTRO MOVEMENT "PARTIDO UNIDAD NACIONAL

REF: NONE

1. THIS AGENCY IS FORWARDING TRACES ON DR. CARLOS MANUEL DE

CESPEDES Y DE QUESADA AND OTHER CUBAN IMMIGRANTS INVOLVED WITH THE

"PARTIDO UNIDAD NACIONAL DEMOCRATICO" (PUND) ,

AS PROMISED AT THE 16

MARCH 1993 MEETING WITH THE DIRECTOR OF CUBAN AFFAIRS FOR THE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND OFFICERS FROM YOUR BUREAU.

2.

AS REPORTED AT THE 16 MARCH MEETING,

THIS AGENCY HAS NO

CONNECTION WITH PUND, AND HAS NEVER PROVIDED THEM WITH ANY SUPPORT OR

ENCOURAGEMENT.

THIS AGENCY''S BRIEF ASSOCIATION WITH MANUEL DE

CESPEDES BEGAN IN MARCH 1990 WHEN HE SOUGHT US OUT AND WHO, AFTER

MISREPRESENTING HIMSELF AT THE START, IN 1991 ACKNOWLEDGED HIS PUND

CONNECTIONS AND SOLICITED THIS AGENCY'S SUPPORI. HE WAS TURNED DOWN

COLD AND THE CONTACT WAS DROPPED.

3. CARLOS MANUEL DE CESPEDES Y DE QUESADA, BORN 08 DECEMBER

1945 IN HAVANA, CUBA, IS A MEDICAL DOCTOR SPECIALIZING IN GERIATRICS.

IN SPAIN AND IS NOW OWNER-DIRECTOR OF THE "CARLOS

MANUEL DE CESPEDES CENTER", A MEDICAL CLINIC IN MIAMI.

DR. DE

CESPEDES MAKES NO BONES ABOUT

HIS HIGH POLITICAL ASPIRATIONS IN A

POST-CASTRO GOVERNMENT IN CUBA.

HE CLAIMS THAT HIS FATHER'S

RATINGTE IN CUBA UNS PEPOLITE HIM NEGE FOR TIE ENA DOLLITER.

-. IN I991 DE-CESPEDES CLAIMED TO HAVE. ORGANIZED PUND (THE*

OLITICAL PARTY- IN - EXILE)

WITH HIS FRIEND SERGIO GONZALEZ ROSQUETE.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

_SECRET

MHENO

93-1832904

SENSIND

DE CESPEDES FURTHER CLAIMED THAT HE AND GONZALEZ ESSENTIALLY CONTROL

THE-PARTY, - ALTHOUGH THERE ARE OCCASIONAL DIFFERENGES-OF-OPINION

BETWEEN THE TWO.

DE CESPEDES DESCRIBED GONZALEZ AS "ONE WHO FOUGHT

IN THE SIERRA MAESTRAS", AND WHO HAD BEEN A CLOSE FRIEND OF HIS

DE CESPEDES WAS THE "DELEGATE " OF THE PARTY, AND GONZALEZ

WAS THE "MILITARY ADVISOR".

THE SECRETARY OF THE PUND WAS ALFREDO

FERNANDEZ GAMEZ.

THE TWO SUBDIRECTORS WERE AMANCIO ABELAIRAS AND

PAGE:

SERGIO FRANCISCO GONZALEZ ROSQUETE WAS BORN

ON| 24 JULY 1938 IN CAMAGUEY, CUBA.

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON

GONZALEZ HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM A REPORT BY A SOURCE OF UNKNOWN

RELIABILITY.

GONZALEZ JOINED THE CASTRO FORCES IN 1958 AND FOUGHT

WITH THEM FOR ONE YEAR.

IN 1959 HE BECAME A PILOT IN THE CUBAN AIR

ON 4 NOVEMBER 1960 GONZALEZ DESERTED THE AIR FORCE AND JOINED

THE 30TH OF NOVEMBER GROUP (MRTN), AN ANTI-CASTRO GROUP.

ARRESTED ON 6 FEBRUARY 1961 FOR ANTI-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AND WAS

SENTENCED TO 12 YEARS IN PRISON.

WHILE ON PAROLE FROM CIEGO DE AVILA

ON 21 DECEMBER 1968, GONZALEZ AND NINE OTHERS ESCAPED IN A 20 FOOT

SAILBOAT FROM MORON, CAMAGUEY.

GONZALEZ AND HIS COMPANIONS WERE

RESCUED BY THE U.S. COAST GUARD AND TAKEN TO MIAMI. GONZALEZ LEFT

HIS WIFE BEHIND IN CUBA; SHE WAS IN THE LAST MONTHS OF A PREGNANCY AT

TIME. IN 1969 GONZALEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS A COORDINATOR THE THE

MRTN.

6. ACCORDING TO A SOURCE OF UNKNOWN RELIABILITY, ALFREDO

RUPERTO FERNANDEZ GAMEZ WAS EMPLOYED AT THE HAVANA CUSTOMS OFFICE IN

MEXICO CITY IN APRIL 1960. THERE IS NO FURTHER INFORMATION ON HIM.

7. AMANCIO ABELAIRAS MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH AMANCIO JESUS

ABELAIRAS, BORN 18 NOVEMBER 1935.

ACCORDING TO INFORMATION DATED

1961, ABELAIRAS WAS PROCESSED BY THIS AGENCY FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

PARAMILITARY RELATED ACTIVITIES.

THERE IS NO EVIDENCE TO INDICATE

THAT HE WAS EVER UTILIZED IN ANY CAPACITY BY THE AGENCY.

THE FILE

SUGGESTS, HOWEVER, THT HE MAY HAVE BEEN RECOMMENDED FOR TRAINING AND

THAT SHORTY AFTERWARDS HE MAY HAVE BEEN DETERMINED TO BE MENTALLY

UNFIT TO CONTINUE SUCH TRAINING.

YOU ARE ALSO REFERRED TO THE DRUG

ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION FOR POSSIBLE INFORMATION CONCERNING

ABELAIRAS.

RAMON PUIG MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH VICTOR RAMON PUIG, JR.,

BORN 20 AUGUST 1938

IN HAVANA, CUBA.

ALL THE INFORMATION THIS AGENCY

HAS ON VICTOR RAMON PUIG IS 1960 INFORMATION FROM YOUR BUREAU.

WAS ADMITTED TO THE UNITED STATES AT MAIMI, FLORIDA, ON 22 DECEMBER

1945. FROM 1945 TO 1955 HE MADE NUMBEROUS TRIPS TO CUBA AND FROM

3955-1957 HE RESIDED IN CUBA.

ON 6 JANUARY 1958 HE WAS AGAIN AN

APPLICANT FOR ADMISSION AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT.

HE WAS ADMITTED TO

THE UNITED STATES AT MIAMI, FLORIDA AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT (0-1

CLASSIFICATION ON 6 JANUARY 1958.

9.

MENTIONED.

THESE NAMES.

THE FOLLOWING IS THE INFORMATION OUR FILES CONTAIN ON

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

93-1832904

SENSIND

PAGE :

FRANK STURGIS (AKA FRANK FIORINI) IS FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,

BORN 09 DECEMBER 1924 IN NORFOLK, VIRGINIA, AN AMERICAN MERCENARY AND

SOLDIER OF FORTUNE LONG INVOLVED IN ANTI-CASTRO AND CUBAN EXILE

ACTIVITIES AND CONVICTED IN CONNECTION WITH THE WATERGATE BREAK-IN.

OVER A PERIOD OF YEARS STURGIS HAS CLAIMED A CIA RELATIONSHIP AS

EMPLOYEE OR AGENT BUT THERE HAS NEVER BEEN ANY SUCH RELATIONSHIP

MID-1977 STURGIS WAS PROMOTING A 2000 MAN CUBAN-EXILE- GROUP TO BES

SENT TO ANGOLA TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT

HE WAS UNSUCCESSEUL

HIS EFFORTS. IN NOVEMBER 1977 HE WAS ARRESTED WHILE ATTEMPTING TO

COERCE A U.S. GOVERNMENT WITNESS FOR GIVING CONGRESSIONAL

* INVESTIGATORS DETAILS ABOUT STURGIS' ALLEGED RELATIONSHIP WITH LEE>

*<HARVEY: OSWALD. >

11. JUSTO REGALADO-MAY-BEC IDENTICAL-WITH-JUSTO-GRACILIANO

REGALADO.-THE-ONLY_INEORMATION-THIS AGENCY HAS ON GRACILIANO

REGALADO COMES FROM YOUR BUREAU IN WHICH YOU REPORT THAT "ON

MARCH 5, 1980 JUSTO GRACILIANO REGALADO WAS INTERVIEWED CONCERNING

HIS STATUS AS AN EX-POLITICAL PRISONER FROM CUBA.

BORN AUGUST 12, 1945 IN SANCTI SPIRITUS, CUBA.

GRACILIANO WAS

IMPRISONED IN CUBA FROM AUGUST 10, 1962

UNTIL JUNE 1979.

GRACILIANO

ENTERED THE UNITED STATES ON AUGUST 29, 1979 AND HAS INS NUMBER A23

344 543."

YOUR BUREAU FURTHER REPORTED THAT GRACILIANO IDENTIFIED

MODESTO ALVAREZ AS A POLITICAL PRISONER WHO ALLEGEDLY WAS A CUBAN

STATE SECURITY INFORMER DURING HIS IMPRISONMENT.

YOUR REPORT

CONTINUES THAT MODESTO ALVAREZ WAS ALLEGEDLY ARRESTED DURING 1967 IN

CUBA FOR AN ABORTIVE ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO.

GRACILIANO MET ALVAREZ IN LA CABANA PRISON DURING 1967 AND IN PINAR

DEL RIO PRISON DURING 1971-1978.

ALVAREZ WAS SEEN BY FELLOW INMATES

PROVIDING PRISON OFFICIALS WITH WRITTEN MESSAGES AND INFORMATION.

IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO IDENTIFY "TONY GARCIA" WITHOUT

MORE BIO DATA.

CLASSIFIED BY SIGNER. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82 NOFORN

FILE: 201-1474629, 201-0242256.

ORIG:_ CIC/LA_ (WEBER, 39380); AUTH:_ C/LA/CCG_(KOMISAR:-€OORD:-

C/CIC/LA (AUSTIN) ; REL: C/PCS/LCG/ID (OSTEEN) . INDEX :

NAMES-_CL_BY 0610917-

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

3

---

