# 104-10102-10071

## Page 1

104-10102-10071

• 2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

старом.

NO FOREIG' DISSEN CUSTRULLED DISSES

I-COSNIAY

JUNECT

Cuha

8.

2.

- LUINEATE DISTR

Embers -fr

Goth

"& July surerent

NO. PAGES

1481000O MAINMOLE ON

FEFENTAICES

CS DB-312:21870-55

5 July 1966

2

DATE Of

INFO.

Late Ap5Al ard 51d-Jens 1916

НАСЕ в

Sce belos

FELD HEPOST 11Ю.

PONS 15 LiNE LOL! DAD PACINATO".

SOURCE CONDIYOS "EE PETiLATO! ARPTAIL O1 CONTENT

SONICE: Sce belor.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Prance. Paris {21 Juae lusd) , 24•

Source, Fara, 1: Lei Official Prench service.)

k.. la eid-jino

a "nay

cat" (Frcher" UND Of Officers gas Rate to be looking for

"udi sortIe') for Castro.

Although inforued

of this project.

taking so action, shile 101l0ving the

Mh: M099 91 0 10019, Tale Up 2! =9-bers o.

sto 26th of

Hovenent,

is directed by Pedro sirey prieto, i

IpCot Corraal. Cornistre re her.

sisa, Digceror ui causational Port Service. 1

States (il Juse 1965)

saladies, inse.

sourse said.

salle vith roll defined poll-

salrly rellable reporter.

tIon to maintaining an unugually large humber of direct and 1n-

direct contacts annely Cutar

exiics and influential Latin Inericar

astIonals

he ras sone contacts in cuba.

Source said that he ob

tained this informition tron a governsental employee on the 1sland

FAR ras unquestlorable.. and

Josque. Sergio de Loalle

ined the respect and admira-

These men are devoted

and they

follon the leader of the cause

sor which thay

forght 57a1158-E9r1s1a

• 8a4054 Barnate,

Psychlatric forkerl, Mazorra) fuefital, and bordos has been re-

legated to an unimportant post.

SPATE

INCSO

1 044

SPIC

•S-E-

• FORFIGS DISSER CONTACLLID DISSEN

_IMSA

USH. DOS&r

1198

13331.

SEP 24 201S

ACHOXED ORIGIMAL-RETALI

a..=

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION..:

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

may i 358

113-2533

---

## Page 2

Kt06115--114-

S-F.-C-R-I..T

IP NO TOPSION DISES-COSMOULTO

CS0B-312:92370-66

700145.090908

sedguarters Corrense

24

1.

Par=fraga.9 or 05-111108789-86

StoR an 011161a1 Spanlsh

BRIVICS, SUEDELINES UP:AT MEDY REJOSS tEn aTe galú tO be

CONTINUITy CRIUILS SO EISANIZE I SUbOlliOn; Miret 790

astello tere not sentitned in the spinist service report

antcilo is reparred)! an intinate friced of faurofusI

earlier later cl trampostatten and loaderion inc

th ot Larch LevOlutlOnEly DireCIOLaLe, an Osganiza.10n &

sash Cancello Melaned.

chine

?.

vallie airet and del Vaile, Alcelda 18 not a PCC Central

CONTItiER ELANE"; dEl Valle IS a BOBbEr Of the 8011tIC+1

Bureau and also of the Revolutionary isted Forces and State

Securily ConTititl of the Central Comaltsee ul ine ite.

д.

TDE8-314/02675-66 cortalas Dordon's CONLEItS EbOut aFrOSt

In the fit, which. 'r his opiaios, is greater every day tut

does nor pore a cutier: tarcat te tha Cari. sésire because

itual d18?rust berneen officers, concomissiozed oaficers,

ind enlisted. nen sakes any united activa inpossible.

Bordon

1 one of querous is, officers those earera his faer re-

portec by refugee sources

in the purge asic" lollored the

Cubela trial.

CS-311. 95970-66 and repcris refereaced therein

contain speculation as the reasone behlud the purge. Includ

Ing the pussivillty that the pürge is disected at serbera

of the 13ch 01 farci Revolutionasy Directorate.

REGENED FROM

B-ECH-F-T

NO TORRICH DISSER/CONTROLLED 3SEA DO

TAt

---

