# 104-10326-10045

## Page 1

1704-10326-10045

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHENO

96-5367593

SENSIND:

PAGE :

SECRET

ACTION: EA/J (223)

EADORECORD, LIMITO,

96 5367593

ASP

SE CRE T 1207582 SEP 96 STAFF

CITE

30260

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT AC/EA/J INFO D/PAS, DC/EA, C/EA/CI

STAFF

INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/OG, CIC/ PRC,

DC/EA,

MDSX, ODPD, PAS, FILE,

CIC/EA,

EA/XO (3/W)

PAGE

001

TOR:

1208022

SEP 96

IN 5367593

30260

*SUBJECT: NEWS STORY-ON LEE HARVEY OSWALDZAND CIA

REF: NONE

TEXT :

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE PROVIDE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER OF

* PROJECT OFFICE RESPONSIBLE FOR DECLASSIFICATION OF<KENNEDY>

* ASSASSINATION› PAPERS.

EMBASSY PRESS OFFICER/ADVISED-COSJAI RECEPTION LAST NIGHT

THAT LOCAL UPI REPORTER IS ABOUT TO FILE A STORY BASED ON LOCAL

RESEARCH AND AN INTERVIEW WITH A RETIRED MARINE OFFICER WHO CLAIMED

*IO BE<LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S>COMMANDER IN JAPAN THAT OSWALD WAS

RECRUITED BY CIA WHILE STATIONED WITH THE MARINES IN JAPAN IN THE

UPI CORRESPONDENT OFFERED PRESS OFFICERSA CHANCE TO COMMENT.

PRESS OFFICEEDECLINED. (COS SUGGESTED THAT MUCH, IF NOT ALL PAPERS

ON OSWALD'S PERSONAL HISTORY HAVE BEEN DECLASSIFIED FOR USE BY MEDIA,

*RESEARCHERS AND< ASSASSINATION>BUFFS AS PART OF OVERALL<KENNEDI>

* ASSASSINATION>DECLASSIFICATION PROGRAM. LCOS ALSO RECALLED THAT THE

JPI REPORTERS STORY,

FINCE, AS A LONG SHOT AT KEEPING A CIS-RELATED SAORY FRUSTRAT

CIA-RELATED STORY FROM SURFACING

THEREBY-PROMPTING

JOURNALISIS TO PURSUE THE SAMES

INFORMATION, COS>SUGGESTED TO ERESS_OFEICER THAT SHA) PASS NUMBER OF

THE HISTORICAL OFFICE ATCHEADQUARTERS RESPONSIBLE FOR DEALING WITH

PUBLIC QUERIES TO THE REPORTER, ADVISING THAT HIS SCOOP MAY, IN FACT,

BE OLD NEWS.

WOULD THEREFORE APPRECIATE NAME AND/OR NUMBER THAT UPI

REPORTER COULD CALL AT HEADQUARTERS HISTORICAL OFFICE RESPONSIBLE FOR

*<JEK ASSASSINATION> INQUIRY DECLASSIFICATION.

IF THERE IS ANOTHER

OFFICE AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES OR ELSEWHERE THAT HAS RESPONSIBILITY FOR

SUCH INQUIRIES, THAT WOULD BE FINE AS WELL. THANKS FOR THE HELP.

1. CI REASON 1.5 (C) ; DECL XI

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MHENO 1 96-5367593

SECRET

SENSIND:

PAGE:

SECRET

2

FILE: NONE.

END OF MESSAGE

DECL OADR DRV HUM 1-82.

SECRET

---

