# 104-10229-10412

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10229-10412

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

NLASSIICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING

1U

MATALO PER INCERINE

Chiet, Western Hemisphere

Diviston

NO INDETING REQUISCO

INTO

NAPCIARTIES MST

TROMA

CAN DUPLE IMOLTINO

RASTRACT

Chlof of Station, JAWAVE

i MIRONIN

SUBIC TYPIC/AMBUD/OPERATIONAL

('DISPOSITION Of AWUD dedical Cases

•A. UFGH-6352, 23 January 1967

B. UFGA-26165, 20 October 1966

C. UFGA-26233,

28 October 1966

D. UFGA-26783, 19 January 1967 .

This report is forwarded as an interim reply to paragraph

of Reference A concerning utilization of State facilities

the AMBUD medienl cases requiring continued treatment.

quarters information,

for Hend-

two of the three remaining cases are now being

handled by local institutions and similar arrangements for the third

are being investigated.

2.

Following the

death of Rigoberto PEREZ. Cruz which was

reported by References B and C, and the termination of all payments

for Rolando POZO Greer

as reported in Referenco D, the remaining

activo nodical cases consist of the following three Brigade 2506

individuals and ono Garcia Lines case:

-

a .

Distribution:

13 - WII/COG

Subjoct 1s an Epileptic being treated as an out-patient

by the Dade County Department of Public Health Anti-

convulsive Clinic at no cost. to JMWAVE.

no improvement and intend to

the

seizures by medication.

Subject with a monthly payment of $225.00..

a intend to sun tie.

The doctors forsee

continue attempts to control

continues to provide

b.

MOLINA QuIranT, JesuS: (201-264134)27

Subject is a mental case whose arrest in June 1961 for

ttempted murder resulted in a Dade County court comnitmen

• South Florida State Hospital where he improved sufficientl

for release in November 1964 to Jackson Memorial Hospital

@ Dade County facility which handles welfare cases) for

out-patient care which continues to be provided at no cosi

to JNAVE except minor cost for drugs which totaled $35.00

19 - 134-25/5

DATE TYPED

15 Feb 67

MEDS ENSO 1967

CS COPY

¡ CÃOSS REFERENCE TO -

DISPATCH SAMBO ANO NUMBER

UFGA - 26980

CLASSITICATIN

SECRET

19-124-25/6

19-124-25/5-3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONLUVATION OF

DISFATCH

SEC:RFT

WIGA-20980

in 1966.

Subject receives a monthly payment of $250.00

from IMHAVE.

• ORTEGA.

A HerBandes, Rarel 20lE101

subjout is a scrlous mental case and the individual

who continues to be treated by a private paychintrist;

Dr. Miguel A. Mora.

paid by JMWAVE

The cost of treatmont by Dr. Mora

and at $25.00 per office visit the

monthly expense averages $225.00.

There have been no

recent charges for drugs.

Subject recoivos a monthly payment

of $225.00 from JMWAVE and has

successfully resisted

previous efforts to

o sassoclate him from Dr. Mora.

d.

MARTINEZ Camc.JO, Faustino (No record of 201):

Subjoct is a Garcia Lines case who suffors from advanced

glaucona and is nearly blind.

He continues

periodic out-patient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital

which JMWAVE pays the cost of treatment and drugs.

Subseguent to the last surgery on 13 Soptember 1965 for

renoval of cataracts, there have been ton charges for

treatment and/or

drugs which total $95.00. Of this

amount $62.00 was for seven items in 1966.

will be forwarded following complotion of the investigation of

"awave recommendations for disposition of the oREGA case

possibilities for treatment by State facilities as suggested in

Reference A.

Bulan Ellenza

Philip G. ELMARD

fir

USE FALLOUS EDITION

CLASSICATICA

SECRET

PAGE Na

CONTINUEO

---

