# 104-10120-10418

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10120-10418

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Always

handcarry 1 copy of

CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

Security Support Division/ Office of Security

SUBJECT:

(True name)

Clare Boothe LUCE

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES

DATE

FROM:

26 July 1963

Cc. Russo 03

WE/4/X Rm. 4B2613, x5559

PROJECT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NA

CI/DA FILE NO.

NA

RI 201

FILE NO.

None

SO FILE NO.

169102

I. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

U.S. A.

3. FULL DETAILS OF

USE

Approval to contact by COS, Rome, when he visits the Uose, or in the event

that she visits his area.

A. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONI

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIMS

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND

GREEN

LIST STATUS

PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES

ATTACHED

PRO

11 WILL BE FORWARDED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED

GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

6.R1

TRACES

NO RECORD

WILL FORWARD

NON-DEROGATORY

7. DIVISION

TRACES

NO RECORD

_WILL FORWARD

NON-DEROGATORY

8. FIELD

TRACES

NO RECORD

WILL FORWARD

NO DEROGATORY INFO.

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

LIST SOURCES CHECKED

NOT INSIIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASÉ OFFICER

1 1x20)03

EXTENSION

5550

OF /BRANCH CHIEF

FORM 772

3-61

SECRET

YES

YES

YES

YES

NO

NO

NO

NO

X?

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

2/1/191

---

