# 104-10326-10017

## Page 1

1704-10326-10017

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHENO

98-0457370

SENSIND:

-RAGE :

1

SECRET

-ERR:

STAFF

ACTION: IMS/ESG (020) INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGLA, CIC/LA, DO/IRO, IMDORECORD,

LA/FIG, LA/FIGSC, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD,

ORMS/ LA,

FILE,

C/LA (3/W)

98 0457370

ASP

TOR:

PAGE 004

061908Z FEB 98

IN 0457370

55099

SECRE I 061900Z, FEB 98 STAFF

CITE

55099

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR :

CIC/LA

LIMITED DISSEM IMS/ESG INFO DO/IRO, CHIEF/LA, LA/FIG, LA/FIGSC,

-SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT 1

CONTINUED PROTECTION OF OUR USE OF

LREE: DIRECTOR 67A7TI

98 0430861

TEXT:

1.

ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FYI ONLY.

AND IN RESPONSE TO REF

TRE RELEASE OF INFORMATION WHICH OFFICIALLY RECOCNIZES THE

WILL, BE, A-DELICATE. ISSUE ACROSS: THE-DO, AND. -

*--ALTHOUGH DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS IN THE<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW

BOARD (ARRR) ARE LIMITED TO ONLY FOUR COUNTRIES-- THE WORLD-WIDE USE

MEANS THE IMPLICATIONS WILL BE WIDELY FELT.

SENSE IT IS ATMOST SELF-DEFEATING TO ARGUE FROM FOUR SPECIFIC CASES

• MEXICO CITY, AND

WEE, AND EXTRAPOLATE FOR

NEVERTHELESS, WE WILL ATTEMPT TO RESPOND TO REF FROM

PERSPECTIVE...

OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION OF CIA USE OF

PREJUDICE UNILATERAL OFFICERS'

AND ACTIVITY,

WHICH --AS IN

MOST STATIONS-- IS THE

AND ACTIVITY WHICH MATTERS THE MOST IN

THAT THESE OFFICERS TEND TO HANDLE THE MOST SENSITIVE

OUR UNILATERAL OFFICERS ALSO HANDLE!

THUS BY DEFINITION THE UNILATERAL

ACTIVITY CARRIED OUT BY THESE OFFICERS IS NON-COMPATIBLE, AND WOULD

¡CAUSE DAMAGE TO STATION'S RELATIONS WITH OUR VARIOUS

CURRENTLY, STATION IS ENJOYING A PERIOD WHEREIN --AS A

/RESULT OF PRESIDENT CLINTON'S VISIT HERE IN LATE 1997, AND THE

VISIT TO HEADQUARTERS IN NOV 97--

HAS DECIDED TO RE-ORIENT ITS ACTIVITIES AWAY FROM SMATI

RELATIONSHIPS IT HAS WITH VARIOUS

TOWARDS CIA.

THIS STRATEGIC SHIFT, WHICH COULD HAVE: TONG-TERM

(BENEFITS FOR_CIA, WILL BE DASHED-WHEN-

NON-COMPATIBLE OPERATIONS

THE TRUST THAT TAKES AN

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MHENO: 198-0457370

SECRET

SENSIND:

-----===-=-

ENDLESS_NUMBER_OF-MEETINGS TO BUILD WILL BE GONF WITH THE FIRST

PUBLICATION LOCALLY CONFIRMING OUR USE OF

PAGE :

4.

MOREOVER, BILATERAL U.S.

RELATIONS HAVE NEVER BEEN

CLOSER; THESE WOULD BE TARNISHED, NOT IRREPARABLY BY ANY MEANS RITT

UNNECESSARILY, BY OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION OF CIA USE

HISTORICALLY RELATIONS WITH

HAVE BEEN STRAINED, AND IT IS

ONLY DURING THE PAST FEW YEARS THAT A NEW PRESIDENT AND HIS BOLD

FREE-MARKET REFORMS HAVE PUSHED

SQUARELY INTO THE

CURIOUSLY, THE CLOSE POLITICAL RELATIONS AND OUR

STEADILY-IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH

_ MEANS THAT BOTH PARTIES

-EMBASSY DIPLOMATS AND SENIOR [

JOFFICERS - - WONDER WHY WE NEFD

_IF WE CAN GET VIRTUALLY ANYTHING WE ASK FOR FROM

OR FROM

OFFICIALS.

INDEED, IN THIS RELATIVELY

OPEN, COMHORTABLE ENVIRONMENT, AN INDICATION THAT STATION WAS WORKING

ON INCOMPATIBLE LOCAL TARGETS WOULD BE ESPECIALLY DAMAGING.

5.

AT THE RISK OF BORING THE READER WITH DETAIL, EMBASSY

IS SO OPEN A WORKPLACE THAT THERE IS NO REAL CLEARED ACCESS

AREA (CAA), BUT RATHER A "HYBRID" CAA,

TO USE THE RSO'S PHRASE.

THIS

MEANS THAT FSN'S HAVE LONG HAD OFFICES ON THE THIRD FLOOR,

WHERE THE

* «EXECUTIVE>OFFICES AND REPORTING OFFICES (INCLUDING STATION) ARE

LOCATED. NEEDLESS TO SAY, STATION IS NOT COMFORTABLE WITH THE /

CONFIGURATION OF OFFICES

IN THIS ENVIRONMENT, WHERE EMBASSY OFFICERS DO NOT HAVE

FULL APPRECIATION OF THE ROLE/NEED FOR INTELLIGENCE IN SUCH AN OPEN,

FRIENDLY SOCIETY, OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION OF CIA'S USE

WOULD ONLY REAFFIRM THEIR POINT OF VIEW.

WOULD ESSENTIALLY THEN BE DECLARED.

STATION WOULD HAVE TO ATTEMPT TO

CHANGE OUR

PROFILE BY OBTAINING MORE

OFFICERS WHILE

REDUCING THE NUMBER

AS HEADQUARTERS IS AWARE,

UNDER CURRENT CIRCUMSTANCES THERE ARE FEW

AND THE SELECTION AND

TRAINING OF NEW ONES TAKES YEARS AND IS EXPENSIVE. IN THIS SCENARIO,

WOULD NEVER RECEIVE ENOUGH PRIORITY TO WARRANT SENDING

TO REPLACE THE THREE

_SLOTS WE CURRENTLY

THE END RESULT WOULD BE THAT WE WOULD COLLECT VERY LITTLE

INTELLIGENCE ON MAJOR PORTIONS OF OUR OPERATING DIRECTIVE (OD) .

SPECIFICALLY, INTERNAL POLITICAL REPORTING, WHICH IS A FIRST PRIORITY

OBJECTIVE, WOULD BE ZEROED OUT, AND REPORTING ON THE WP AND ES

TARGETS, BOTH SECOND PRIORITY OBJECTIVES, WOULD BE NON-EXISTENT.

THIS WOULD BE A SERIOUS LOSS TO THE USG,

SINCE OUR WP REPORTING HAS

HISTORICALLY BEEN THE ONLY MEANS OF LEARNING TO WHAT EXTENT THE

ARE RESPECTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS AND NOT REBUILDING

THEIR MISSILE PROGRAM. ON THE ES TARGET, WE WOULD LOSE SIGNIFICANT

REPORTING ON REGIONAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITY AND THE IMPACT OF THE ASIAN

FINANCIAL CRISIS IN THE AMERICAS. PERHAPS MOST IMPORTANTLY, HOWEVER,

WE WOULD LOSE THE TRUST OF

GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND OF SOME

OFFICIALS,

WITH THE PREDICTABLE RESULT THAT IT WOULD

TAKE YEARS TO REBUILD THE RELATIONSHIP.

IN TERMS OF A SECURITY THREAT,

REMAINS THE ONLY

CAPITAL IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE THAT HAS BEEN THE VICTIM OF TWO

HIZBALLAH BOMBINGS, KILLING HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE..

(INFRASTRUCTURE" EXISTS-IN-THE- TRI-BORDER AREA OF

A TERRORIST

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MERNO: 198-0457370

SECRET

OR THREE TIMES PER YEAR STATION OBTAINS REPORTING OF ANOTHER-PHREAT

ON LOCAL JEWISH OR U.S. INTERESTS, INCLUDING THIS EMBASSY.

ENVIRONMENT, PUBLICATION OF CIA USE OF

_MIGHT ENDANGER

PEOPLES' LIVES, SPECIFICALLY STATION OFFICERS'. HAMAS, GAMA'AT AL

ISLAMIYAH. AND HIZBALLAH ARE ALL ACTIVE LOCALLY. IN ADDITION,

AN ARAB POPULATION OF OVER 700,000. IN THE DIPLOMATIC

WORLD, THE CUBAN EMBASSY IS LARGE AND ACTIVE; WE ARE CERTAIN THEY

WOULD SEEK TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ANY

HAD ANY-SIGNIFICANT

GAPS: STATION HAS NOI

GAPS IN THE PASI, AND THUS ANY ONE OF TRIS

MAGNITUDE WOULD HAVE A LARGE, IMPACT.

STATION HOPES THE ABOVE IS USEFUL IN MARSHALING ARGUMENTS

AGAINST THE PUBLICATION OF THE ARRB RECORDS.

FILE:

DRV HUM 4-82.

NONE: DECL ON: X1. CI REASON: 1.5 (C) CL, BY: 0705909

END OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

3

---

