# 104-10219-10285

## Page 1

-00001

104-10219-1028€

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

i..

HX-11

MEMORANDUMLOH! Th Departiant of eate

ATTANTIONI

SUBJECTS

iF. Ernery S. Adaiio

MARTIN, Willarn

MITCHELL, BETRES

Lo Referenco do made to yous lestos of d1 Curator 1981 captioned

"BAATIN, Fillers and MlICHelle Surlor"; End 80 j0u8 806806 le68as

aL dO JASUGEY :96L CAptiOSEd DO AbSTO, yOUI CLO RElEPESCO STIMU.

Ao Ilesal you dos yous lotses d! l0 Catabor 1460, nilch enclosso

o copy el use nene arttele pegarding aubjecto, optel appaared la tsa

How Test Dally lama Lunday Lattten of 1a Sopsambus di80. to regist

ma es dudLess provided la you of tue sintua al the sidon undersaon.

S. With radorence lo lue natio articla lesallo dnd Jour segaoes lor

that sabines jeined the conmualas party lo labrrasy 199d, and shat

FOSSACRNALE. Ll lA DURSeUTEd tas you may ttEa lo Enfer tais question

10 ino i tiGrai jarRau Di invOBgalios, do MO BAtO tint neithos of sio

aboro references indicates thas a copy maa formarried lo the Dareas,

1'»? ¡had a eoparare lagalsy tae beday mado al thas effice.

I. TINA F010SENE0 80 091 r6f468t 10r isiormation cerseralag tha

idantity al the retagon organisation nich all ogmily obtainst a bulletin

centRiolas tole information, approptials laguirtas bare daer mede by

05s 80p106estAtive8 1n bondon. The lattes aduleed de late Decembes 1860

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

.g..

Chat lala ans iroca was discuased with represeatativas of 11-5, "bo

B8 TO DETPOTI SDO BLOTY dO CASTICA dO tHE PROBB. HOMeVer, MI-S indicared

that 880y 60781dã1 18 probablo that the actual suerce vas a certado josepis

HUISLER GOrA? daly 1,11 in Esochultania, noo lo tolloved to have

Doen used at thrase ds a contact by ili. fieasy l. MAUlt, tha eldel

London correspondRas of The New YOrk TIANA" HELlLED OE 0C680800

não lald calm to baving courteo bobino the Aror Currais, but 11-9 i0 o8

eue opteton thas be probably cbraino bio trarmation froin a Gaect

Rougoo orgasinadad. not further doesilled by samo. Ibay also ladi-

caled thas the Beddleb conolder do algaly lprobablo that tbare is auy

5. Or recordo dadicate that the above Judoph HilLER, who

¡Tos arrivEd In 8he Unirod dingoona In 1931, and since thas bas ongaged

In vartoas osport-duaper8 traduactions, laay already bo lncer 8o yoar

Fia lost carra lo attention da Saptenbes 1:5% whon our

rEprOdenialIVes la Landon Wore rogBoered to abrain ladena tIseas on

MEISLER fOR MI. ChInton Crosa. USIS representalue la London, also

and retelved en unsolicitad appruach from a 1. HersarS HUTICH.

¡BORLIOd by MI•S so JOCOpL CISLER. Cur TOCORdS Asticaso Phas a

FEBUTE DE MI, GIDED'O CORIACIO MILA RILLEN WOE LETTANNEN tO USL

Madquartaro do lato 195%, and shor certain documenta solasang lo

MIlLER'O ImpaTI-BApOrE spOrAtORo bes* termarded by the sconanle

Liesento Ullsen ropresentatives li london do youe Daparsinent El 38018

the ourse don. the slos sbon tat a full copy uf tha ii-s repart. eug-

BODILNS POISY. BOTRATA MUTTUN lE ILENCIl WILL JUDOP MEISLEA

accompanied thu report lu l'sLA bosdgantiara. A copy ul tiese iracos

is poontand los your convenience, so altachinant horewill.

6. We note that do a rapig to il-s prepared to sus representa

Lives la rasponDs to to abovo Mentioned STACes Un MESSLEE, mentos

do mado d a litÓ dea applicaos iled by Milita, pressmanly tos

entRy into the United Stared, allaraga tha acroal relarenco lo Dol Avail-

abiao it do roqueered that any anditional intormation which ay ba

rallecsed in tha dadfcos ul tho Dopartment ai Staro Mill referenco lo

Joepa HilibER'o visa applicallon and un blo contacto wich Coradntero

or Soules intoiligence calicisla of urgansatione, do provided to ebla

Agency an expodtionaly so possible.

7. The faregalag iníntraalias da restricted for desernal seo of tho

SIREET

easy reales

- 50÷193

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

..

addroneta tal%, and say not bo discendrated estette tha sedresere

allie miltons the prios apprevad al tao origlastor.

FOB THE DERUTY DIRECTOR (PiANO)

WILLIAM A. HARVEY

se m/es8s Medoral Dareon of lacostigallou

ce M/atts National Becurlsy Agency

A88a1 delo do s'odlog Hoynoldo

DD/P/F1/D/APotocklimem

Diatribution:

Orig ta 1 v/att - Addressee

##/8+1- 100-6-124/3

#: 284-201-282337

1@fett - 201-282338

2w/1 att - 05/SRS

1 /att - 201-207250 (Joseph HEISLER)

1 5/att - chrono

Based on: OELW 18040

OELA 32666

Ozitiß 21634,

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

ATTACHMENT

•I, thinò shere le no douba iron the particulars and description

gives in. paragrapa 1 oi lhar lotter lhas the man lo whor you aro cup-

sently dutorastod in Josepis ilaiiiti, born 1 July 1911, a Escrbustoo

vation sational tão liros arrived da lar. U.f. da 20 Juns 1-3%

'HELSLIA Mas edarsiod la Clerasi until 1930, "hon he ment to

Barla and studdod mediciao.

lu 1981 he sotaraod lo Caechaslavanla

and bocamo a journallal, Mecordlag to his ora statemiast inedo lo tae

Bridol FUlLeo in Soprember 1:41, LiElSLAN bocanA Interestod la Coca-

2a1a1a0n in borlda ta 1430 and jalned the Commundos Party ia 1932. ho

orado articica lor a conmunal periodical callod "Rod "io0t" and was

andarlated mila the neganisation Rod Help. la 1733 ho trenalerrod lo

Pte Caech Corumunior Farty and urote lor "Iludo ÜeArn." ls April d'iJa

Do ment to nicecos and abradaed emplayment on the stall el tas "sinecer

"According lo a sasully rollablo sourco 1IZ1SLER atloaded the

boato schoal in boacon in about 1431, lia similod visiting tha Lenin

peliteel inseriellon. He aldo clalmad tas da 1935 ho lad boon inudded

po bacomo s citison of tha i. s.û. Do, bul ho had foruaed, and that by

1935 ha vao no losgor a sienbar al the Curamonlat Pasty.

"AlTOS DO ASTIVAl lA LA U.À. HEISLEH jalned the TROEnSE MANE

880Ep oS CEECÙ JoAspallsis. (Inla uss ena of the ernigre groupa formad

Inder liM CAOSh MOÍNgUE IFusl Fundi, Ho uas sellably reportod to bo&

Coroaist at taos lisho, - Nulanta mas esployod by tio (soch Mirdeiry

10r Farelga dífaira (pera ebral Anguar 1941 unid Jebraary lido do e

padio coraraentetos and translator. te la hnorn to hava adls that le

recolved a calaJy (raus la [soch Esbrasy "los propagasda." Altos

tão MaR tO Tado asTerel visita to Esochudlovatlas an the last accasdon

ao retaraed to tala county an ll é abruasy lido.. Alllosas de cladras

to davo s0B1zued fram Crerl GurerAmen employranne al too tiaro al lhe

Comoventos coup d'eral, rellado doarede sior thas ha tas, as laser until

GERADOX 1.11, O CORTATI DE LT. ZEMAN, UNO SI IDES PÍTIA REO ECCORO

Serrerasy in the isoch Enenasy and las represestalive ibare of the

CRetA Malotsy ol lDe Inserio, HEISLINl Mas otTongly susperted ol

DELIRE. DE A3 AZOS! 108 ZÜLLAN. Ho MAs alDO seporiod do be postag so a

sacieldos bat in realdsy de do a Cor casaial.

SS0NZ7

---

## Page 5

ONCT

"Ls DECORaDER 1767 MANSLEE appliod lo lso lomo Ofilco los pos-

malandon to publial a vectly nemapaper in lhe Croch larguago dar lao

CsAct colmuniles in lado conaisy, lu establlah a llierary sed iosase

aguay througa micù loroiga litoralure could de placed in tala coralsy

and (50m linE to dino lo publian books, mainly dur caport. Ho 1a0

'Al tRA ONd Ol 194T MEISLAR applied los a CostiAcato of Naturali

"In MATCh ISA) HÜISiAN staTted a lirTo namod tha tldeI Com-

poRt, Misi cLodorea lo t0 tho sUdo agost for a sam a Spandol coltos

SiBERÍECtUrOrE. TiNo HTM dOSs Dot Eppeas to savo had a 400d sepala-

Plano in 1951 ho mes connacted ulia as limpore and esport tima sarnod

All-Wayo servlco, and in 1i92 mila bietes Company and the itores

Company ilediodo slese trai siano 10 las condinipanty conso 20 notte

consoce lina vil any politicad actlukey.

dast do may bo la sono annacias duliculilos.

"ME13LTE ERASSION (IFOR DA 10 CERODOR 1940 ELOGA ASARCEL DECHOVA,

nho dios en & soptersher 1900. Thoy asd mua Brillan bora chilere.

On 18 December 8780 ho marcled a Brillos subloct nanod roatt GulD,

Dy sanin ba bão eno cullé, Tão Haistião lusd as varioso sedreoono la

CHET

US ORACIALS ONLY

---

## Page 6

4-00000

PID/SAS Indices checked 10 Feb 61 - Negotive results

Dr. Jakob Y. FISCHER

HAYANKO Hanako 9 Common-law Japaneso wife

Rheinland German Kitchen.

1524

dearests distres lain.

---

