# 104-10169-10269

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10169-10269

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FISTURN

Background Lse Only

Do Not Reproduce

12? 566 60

FIRSTOR

ET

1ЮN.

C/DELL: 13 (ER EROLLER, UN DIV NOTIFIED LOVE 23 GEC)

. DOP, COP, NOCP/A, WH. 3,. 5/6 2

DE6 23 Ü32z 60

DUQUE

PRIORITY

8N 21843

FRITY WAVE INTO PRITY DIR CITE HAVA :205

INZIPAKI

1. ON 23 DEC ROBERT M. GEDDED CANO WORKS WITH ASPAN-22) CONTACTED

CO AFTER FAILURE TO MEET FALPH DIAZ HANSCO AND ASKED CO DELIVER

SPECIAL AIRDROP MAP TO MIAMI TOR "CLARENCE".

2. CEDDES EXPLAINED THAT HE HAD TALKED WITH "CLARENCE", IN

ITALI AND WAS TOLD THAT EARLIER DROP MAP DROUCHT BYELALO OR

IS NOT SUITABLE. NEU MAP IS IN INDIA INK PREPARED 3Y ENGINEER

CRESTO WHO HEAD FLELIC KORK REPT IN CHENLEÇOL, CHERRASSED

WHO GAVE TO CEDED CEDED SAID, ALT DROP

SPECIAL FOR LIMAS, RAMIREZe MONTIEL. AND PORTION FOR DUQUE.

→3 CGEDDES SAID PRELIMINARY DROP SIGNALS WOULD CONSIST ONE RED LIGHT,

DONE WHITE LIGHT, ONE RED LIGHT ABOUT 1S IT

DISTANCE APART. CLOCKWICE MOVEMENT OF LIGHTS INDICATE PREPARED

TO RECEIVEA: GROUP REQUESTING ARNE AND AMMUNATION FOR 42J MEN

PLÜS LOO PISTOLS. ALSO EXTRA ANMO FON THOSE ALREADY LA. PLACE.

SO MAN BEING SENT WAVE DY COURSER ARRIVING

064 E56:

40 (CEDDES) SAID THAT HS WOULD CONTICT HECTOR TEDLES 5R 3-19622

D ARRIVAL SINCE LEELESTINO DICE CONTAGT VIT CLAUNCE.

116.E0,29/17597

*

SAngale Cars; call

¿iND OF MESSAGE

MREPROPUCTION RY DIDN_THAN

Coor No.

---

