# 104-10103-10057

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10103-10057

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

19 Jein.72

EVERETTE HOWARD JUNI, JR.

1. Subjaci, a formar GS-15 Operations Dificer assigned

to DDP/Europe, is 53 years of age and married. He served wich:

the Cifice of Strategic Serriess during World War II, and was employed

by this Agency from Novsraber 1919 until bis voluntary retirement

os 30 April 1970, Is 1971, Subject served as an advisor to Presidezt

Nizos in relation to his trio to Chisa. Subject is of current interest

to the Central Cover Stall,

2. Subjact graduated from Brow University in 1940.: Ha

served wits the United Statas Navy from carly 1941 antil late 1942-

After a year with Time, lacorporated, he entersathe Air Force,

where he was detailed to the Office of Siratagic Sarvices. He served

in the Fa= Easi antil January 1946. Subject engaged in wrizing, and

then from May 1948 uatil February 1919 was employed by the Economic

Cooperation Admitistration, serving in Paris, France, a3 an aide to

Avarall Harriman

3. A backgrouad investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation in July 1949 rersaled no indication of inatability on

Subject's pari, but it was later learned that Subject had bees refused

an increase in salary with the Economic Cooperazion Admiristration

and bad been permitted io resign. He was described as highly intalligent,

but bliadly selfish and egosiatical.

Subject's stils, Dorotsy Louisa Goutiore Hunt, was investigaied

for Agency employmest in 1943. Has former husband was described

23 a habitual drunkard, and Subjact's wife was described as slightly

unstable and sos inclined to remain in one plaza los any length as time.

Sce did not eater on duty, having accepted a position with she Economic

Cooperation Administration in Paris, Car Paris sources later reported

tha: Subject's wife was formarly his mistreas and was openly floused

a8 such for several ronths. She was then described as as amoral and

dazzarous individual who underhandedly attacked those persons 22o

incurred her enmity.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

5. Subject entered on duty as au Intelligenca Cificer, GS-I3,

0n. 8 Novexaber 1919, In December 1950 ba was assigaed as Chief

of Station, ivezico City, and then served as Chial of Mission there

uatil August 1953.

He served in Tokyo, Japan, from June 1954.

until February 1957. He was then assigned as Chiaf of Station,

Montevidao, Uruguay. Subjeci was Chial of Station in Mostavideo

until early 1960. Thare were indications that Subjeck attempted

to usa his personal infuence mita the Presidant oi Uruguay to hava

his assignant there extended, but he returned to the United States

in Juns 1960 and was assignad to blexico City ox Project IMARC.

8, A cable frors Montevideo, dated 6 November 1960, indicates

that Sabject had writtan forcer Uruguayan contacts commenting thai

ha was working on the Cubaz problem and publishing an asti-Castro

nauspaper in Miami. It was recoramended that Subject be warnad

about such indiscrest rexcarks, but apparently no action was taken.

7. In Noveraber 1961, Subject was reaasigned to the DDPl

Covert Action Stall, and la January 1962 to the Offico of the Chief

of the same Staff.

In Jaly 1962 Subject was transferied to the DODS

Research and Pablications Section in.Wazhingtos, and in July 1964

tó the DODS Covert Action Stail, In Februazy 1965 ha movad to the

Difice of the DDP/ Operations Group. FroLa June 1965 to Saptariber

1966 Subject served a9 a Cortract Agant is Madrid, Spain, alter

which ha served in the DDP as Chiel of Europeas Covert Operations

ustil his retirament on 30 April 1970.

8.. Ox 26 January 1970 a source of the Office of Security

learned that Sabjact was circulating through the pablishing community

"'Cive Us This Day," a manuscript writtez, under his former oparational

alias and dealiag wita the events of the Bay of Pigs. Investigation

discload that tha mazuscript had been in the possessios of Tom Wallace,

of Holt, Rinehart, and Wiaston, Inc. as early as 9 Jaly 1968 asd tcat

it was sent on that date to William I. Bucklay, Jx., of tha Natiocal.

Revies. The manuacript was aent to the Arlingion House and Walker

and Company a9 sell. Both jojaciad it as too controversial, as bad

Holt, Rinebark, and Winston.

---

## Page 3

9. Sabject as interviesed regarding the maguscrip os

17 February 1970 by the DDP, He di flisi professad igaorance, out

minea told the title admittad ba bad written it for bis own benali: as a

historicai record. Subject said be bad shown the manuscripi about

17s years ago to bia agedi, Mas Wilkinsoa, aad to Willlam E. Suckley,

I?.. He said be had only wazied an opinion frore tbasa gendlaces, aed

added thai lie manuscript had been ratarned to him. Is had, ba said,

not sranted it publlabed. S13jec' was instructed as to the sanger of such

a manuacrip being publishad, and was to attempi to determine bow

many copies of it might be in circalation.

#a was 10t to contact walka=

and Compazy, who were the source of the original informañion.

30. A riavastigation oi Subject was conduciod by the Office of

Security in Jaly 1970. Subjec: and bis pia were described by gix

neighbors acgainiad sita them for up to pice years, as exceliani

parents, good beightors, and live community citizeng.

11. Da 19 Jay 1971, Subject was reportad by the Jersay Cliy,

Ney J25397, Jonrzal to havo joined the Walte Ficuss Sialf as a

Congalbs: to Praaidans Nitos prepazatory to the Presidaat's visic to

tha Peoples Zapsolle of Chiza.

12. Ox 6 Novaraber 1970, Sabject was gianted a Corset Sacerity

Apporal faI use by Caaizal Coser Sial wita Robert R. Muller azd

Company, a Public Ralaticas Arm with oilices at 1729 H Street, Norto-

wast, Mastiagtos, D.G," Inquiry di the Ceatzal Cover Stall ou 19 Juna

1972 zeyealed tha: this lo a curson relationship. Subject, as principal

uLãcsz of Robert R. Mullen and Compaay, i3 ziptig of cover arrange-

maais {o= to Agency assets James Eyerett in/Amatardam, Netherlaada;

ana) Artizuz Focaberg, in Singapore 10)

13. Subject's security file zaflects thai Sabjeck has, in the pasi,

bean di operational intaresi to is. James Angleton, Chiel, CI SUE/DP,

in connection with au operational maiter, On 19 Juza 1972,

Jabbard, CI Suit, advised that be will provide information as to tae

mine DiMa. Angleion's utilization of Subject.

3

---

