# 104-10506-10020

## Page 1

1704-10506-10020

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (U.S. citizen)

1. There is no 201 dossier on BUCKNER; one should be opened.

2. BUCKNER is pro-Russian, pro-Chinese and critical of the U.S.

3. Trace information:

a. CSCI 3/779,571, dated 16 Jan 1964;

Based on MEXI 7696 (IN 95191) LIENVOY (ZRSAUCE) Project:

Memo to FBI from CIA (DDP) on BUCKNER's contact with the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. States that a usually reliable and sensitive

source in Mexico City reported that on 8 Jan 64 Andy BUCKNER from

Sherman, Texas, asked Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Commercial Counselor at the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City /Known DGI/ about the information BUCKNER

gave RUIZ in Mexico in November 1963. RUIZ replied that the answer had

not been received from Habana. BUCKNER and RUIZ planned to meet again, but

were

the details of the meeting at that time / : unknown. BUCKNER's telephone

number in Sherman, Texas was 892-8145. (CIA said it had no further info.

on BUCKNER at that time, and further stated that it was forwarding the

info. to the FBI for information only, not to be dissemed without permission)

b. CSCI 3/782,043 dated 30 June 1964:

Forwarded to the Bureau of International Commerce, CSCI

3/779121 and CSCI 3/779,571, on H.W. TOTTEN and Andy BUCKNER, Contact

with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

. '

- 2 -

c. DBA 78315 dated 19 August 1964 (FBI):

Concerns Andrew G. BUCKNER akà Andy BUCKNER, and "Little

Caesar''.

An FBI source reported that two employees of the Washington

Iron Works, Inc., Sherman, Texas told him that Harold TOTTEN, owner of

the business, and an employee, Andy BUCKNER, had made statements critical

of the U.S. Government and of high Government officials. Both TOTTEN and

BUCKNER reportedly had made so-called business trips to Mexico City in

the past. BUCKNER was reported to be purchasing agent for the firm.

BUCKNER had made remarkes among the firm employees that he believed Fidel

CASTRO of Cuba and Nikita KHRUSHCHEV of Russia to be smart people. Both

BUCKNER and TOTTEN criticised U.S. Govt policies and opposition to the

U.S. blockade of Cuba. They criticized the policies of both Presidents

Kennedy and Johnson. A few days before Pres. Kennedy was assassinated

on 22 Nov 1963, BUCKNER remarked to some of the firm employees that he

had read news stories about President Kennedy's planned trip to Texas and

thought "it would be funny" if something should happen to him. On the

afternoon immediately following Pres. Kennedy's assassination, BUCKNER

and TOTTEN were at the Iron Works, and after having heard of the

assassination, said it could not have been them because they were at the

Washington Iron Works at the time it happened. TOTTEN received newspapers

and literature from time to time in the names of John R. BRINKS and Thomas

E. EDWARDS. BUCKNER reportedly was hotheaded, thus the nickname "Little

Caesar."

Have asked Ops Liaison to obtain photo of BUCKNER from FBI to

determine if he is iden/with "Unidentified man".

d. DBA 99348 dated 18 Feb. 65 - Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (EBI)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

. *

- 3 -

d. continued -

The FBI contacted BUCKNER in Sherman, Texas on 28 Jan 65 for

an interview. He admitted receiving publications from China and the U.S.S.R.

TOTTEN was contacted by the FBI in Sherman, Texas the same day. The FBI

agent said in his opinion TOTTEN was a dangerous individual and a

"potential OSWALD." He considered it unsafe for an agent to contact him,

at his office and if an agent walked into TOTTEN's office, "he might

get a belly full of lead."

e. According to a lutch Liaison report (ONHA)$24, dated March 1953,

one A. BUCKNER (Communist fellow travelers) was cited as driver for MOCZI,

the Hungarian Charge d'Affairs in the Netherlands.

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

## Page 4

13-00000

y phode)

UNCLASSIFIED

luuias

MY CNY

ROUTIND AND ISCORD SHIBT

CONFIDENTIAL

&I SECRET

NO FOREION DIBBIK

ap.

DATT

ocero

РОДИМОГО

но.

C8CI-3/170, 871

DATE

16 Januaxy 1064

COMMeNTS t a oc c atem a ota toca toa,

2.

VsAVRmebar

tietp.itor.re

ma/s/ta:100

AbCIREVS "

ilzi

fo thas

,c/ors/wM;

CIAAIA

2C33

24м

10.

RID/AN

10.

RIMIS

12.

RI/PS

13.

RI/EL

1000

610755000 S696REIdE SANIPENTIA

'

0 UN0A5s1F08

---

## Page 5

13-00000

10

Fia

Etontionr.S. Japitos

Attention:

Papich

: Doputy Droctor 10f PlAnS

A varually rollable and

• askod cuillo

wls replied that the anovor had sol

Babasa.

socalla d tha mating aro sot kBova.

мнет 1я влагтая, токая, 18 808-8115.

2. TALA OffICO bRO DO LASOSAstIOn On BUCKNA.

not Do a cada tales riot poor do a dia tea.

C8C8-3/778.571

wH/3/Mex1co/VRenshaw: dc

Diatribution:

Or1g. & 1

- Addressee

1 1200-9-37

- CI/LIA

CA/BLA

SAS/CI

WH/ 3/Y

TH/MEXI

WH'R

18 January 1964

BA8IC:

MBX1-7698

(IN-95191)

PROJECT: LI ENVOY

(ZRSAUCE)

Co-ordinated with: SAB/CI - HOra

(by phose)

GS C..

INDEX

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CONFIBENTIAL.

BOUTINO AND DI

CORD SHETT

і каі

" C8C1-8/183,069

80 бола 1081

DAN

tracon Rombat

ELIA SC-38

9

JUL

1964

RIDAN :

RIMIS

"RI IPS

INERE

на

10.

. 610-759 0 SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL MIN

UMCLASSIFIDD

---

## Page 7

13-00000

CASEG ON

3/7: 2,149 V

30 JUN 1304

o1pat100 serrado

1, ASTRADAS ATO DOA CACI TORANTO MALeS aTO DaLSI

pross el la solonel Danea

8.

a0l..8

но кот

.

• 1100a810n 10 88000 roparto le 800 To03 son

867-3/192,00

olive

0s + T00s 1008100

VW1/Mexico: V. Benshaw:chk

Distribution:

0т15.

@•] - Addressee

RI

(200-9-37)

CI/LIA

CI, BAA

CI/ICG

ME SA CI - HOTT @S COPY

VH. PO. A

inurdinares

BH. SA C1 - Horn (phone!

30 June 1964

BASIC: None

PROJECT: NoDe

---

## Page 8

13-00000

File Na

K.

5P

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT DE JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURBAL OF INVESTICATION

Auruat' 19,

тохав

August

1984

7RA78.315

ANDREW Ce

"BUCKNER

WINTEN

Johany

¡ Apr1l 28, 1084,

Norris, 310 Bast Jones,

влогная, тохая

volunteered Inforestion that had boon recoivod

by hia fron tno employees of lashlarton

• Iron forks.

reportodly

AB

DES NED

PI

501

sokaos

not

ly

of

for

aesa

T-I,

contact

w1th

judgo rollability

advinod

Harold

ґb1

i te

1 no Ta

Hashlagton

IrOn

Ідс.,

312

last

Ands

Bucka

1981

General

To or Cuon and More

MArt

11 amen

peoplo

ararad

del

0.

18.

180

Er10

happon

Bad.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

ANDREY Q. BUCKNER

contiauation of hin further critician

of Prenident tensedy'

policies.

Informant recalled

Foll the colone to tody

that

ho afternoon tunedia tal

nose at. the santagtos Iron

188118138+105,

Buckner and Torte

lac.,

having just heard about

tho assasslsat10s,.

then becaune they were at the

1AE

that it could sot bare boo

anhington Iron forks at the tin

It happoned.

DI T-l further atated

that

since

that

Buckner

further alone those l1sen but

rosarted since tha

tino that prosidont Jobanon' 1e

not any botter in thair opfalos.

statod that on

varIous occasIons, Totten and

Buckner,

with otbor

employees at

lashlaston Iron horks,.

1n diso

Arushchor and Castro have

about

what

done.

th

INfO

stod

Totten

tic

and bellefo

Jews 911

$t

uB e

0de

rul

ball

that

the

the

Daltod

пороу".

IRIO

undoratood Buckbar

70г.

Informant has

althor

of ther

ited for

aay

DI. I-l stated that Buckner and Totten

loft shores

Гохал

on Apx11 25,

and travalled to Dallas,

тохам

ро

rter

• в сопраду сат

that tino,

Buckner and. Totten vero

supposed to have

illed fron Ladda

Noxico,

destisation

l purpose of

Thay

Ігол

tray

Shornas

onLy

fow days and

Do

BODE

th

back to

worl

at shornan

11: 28,

Вгу,

1964.

Informant

Totton's soci

tO

Dorothy Stomart,

tooz a vacation trip

the sun

of 1982

So far dr

Iasorment

Cuba.

КлОт

has expre

1 ес

ayape thiee

for Busals or

IncorRest

to hor

employar, Tottos.

DE. T-1

atarad

Totton rocolves nome

to

pare ane Literatur

of John &

Briake sad. Thoses &,

Iat

the 11t

of anti-connunist

Buckner 10

• 01

ar"

mich Do

han

and has the

or

01x or 018ht

one intrich.at th

801

yoare

{hor

shorean Auto forke

of Bucksor before

Buckaor bagas

тод forks.

nad a

partias of the

Do way th

that Patrick

and Buckner

---

## Page 10

13-00000

ANDREN Q. BUCIVER

DI T-I OD JUDO 19, 1981.

ad+1a0d

nO InPOrNAtIOn

that Tottes

or Buckaor Davo

81d1: 10001

tripa out of the l

Unttod Sta

slAco about

they paạt to

lexico.

Арт11, 1801, 0000

about kay,

1088,

I ADd BUCKAOS 18

had sone kind of a

soment bettons thomsolves.

asture

mo only cuaronor tottes

firn has lanzlco

nas na1d to bo Alton BOrRoo, MosclOrIa, Coabulla, Maxico.

CONCOrDIDE aCtivItien of Harold Tottoa or Asdy Buckaer, la bea

so InforaatIon Indicatla8 alther Totton or Buckaor have

travolled outaido of the

United Starm or that either of the

too has engagod 1n activities detrinantal to the Daltod Statos.

telophose directory

liats lashington

"ber' to call on

Holly Avenue, 862-9309.

-93-58 18 1t

and He T. Totter

Jr., 509 forth

also lists.

Harry lotteR, 101 south

drand Avenue,

893-8431 and Andron G.

Buckner, Hishnay

88, Toat, Shornan, 892-6810.

the past, on May.

Toxas Avenue,

Sherman.

both

residence

and at

pos

ce box utilized

tea other persons

that box,

Andy Buck

othera

lafo

ation.

howeve

any

particular organization

has no

of then has engagod la asy activities

detrin

Staton

or has

travollad or communicatod ni th

the Daltod Brates.

advined Harold W. Tottes,

operator of

Texas, resides at 204

Totten roceives

28

Iroa

ток, інс.

which

firn received sa1l

but the names

ard runora soveral

18

Ho has no

affiliated uith

rastion that either

•atal to the Unlded

anyone outalde of

наказат.

Dallas, Tox

---

## Page 11

13-00000

ANDRIT O, BUCKNER

A. Buckaor and 8. Totten travolled on Braalli

Pirat Class

12, 801126, тохам

to Mard co CIty,

On AprIl JOjoeYiDE Dallao at 11:11

BITITIDE d8 MOXICO CILY at 3:30 D.U.

Toy had ao retura

reservation st the tino

they departed fron Dallas.

arVatIOsA, fOr the trIp tO Marico CIty voro nado

talapbonically

1:10 р.н..

Apт11 17, 1001,

I UnBaNod BeCTAtaTy tho savo

the bustaese

also furalabad

892-8146,

Тохат. Бро

telophone numbera for the traulara ra 802-

8818 10г

Totten

98-8810 for Buckner.

poto Sbornas,

raxes telephone

or only about eat tajod adole could aural coco da aro socalso

onceralas any allogod traval by Buckner or Totton Iron Dalla

to boxiço in septembor or October, 1963:

Mion Botty, 3, Violos, Domontic Operationa Diulelodi

rashlagtos, D.

recolving perminion' to travel to Cuba.

of AndreN G. BuCkner applyIag sor or

The f1l0 saintalned for Harold Mallaco Totton at

Pa ago, 1819, Da contained do colonel stato, too carsoned

and contalaad the folloning:

illace Totten vas resened on january z8,

paraport 2189561 lanued April 21969,

•19, co oxptro

to Harold

Aps 11 38,

1968.

He indicatod he destrod passport to be used

sos anorgoncy businens tripo.

Rocordo of the Passport 0111d

mpartneat of state,

lash118ton. 0.

1964,

roslected so

Identialable

IDIOTRAtIOs COnceralDE AndreY O, Buckaar, Udo kaova as Andy

Bucknar.

as duralabod

on say ?, 1068.

by DE T-1, 10

Andy Bucksor

-d.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

ANDREN G. BUCKNER

Height:

Height:

Ha1r:

Complazion:

Eyes:

Residence:

DBA 74315

About 5'78

160 pounda

Blond,

crowcut

Modius dark or ruddy

Blue, neare black shell-rianed joadis&

lent Bigaray 82, Sheraas, TeXas

Thia document contalra polther reconnondations sor

conclusions of the fBI.

It 18 the proporty of the

FBI and 18

loaned

to

your agency;

It and 1ta contenta are

distributed outaldo your agoncy.

...

---

## Page 13

13-00000

COMEFIDENTIAL

DBA

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

rely 50 as 5P.

008: 8.22

Oic

?

TEN 200

This incum my!

§ COPY

---

## Page 14

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

alm iron

It nos

stated

Do ado

that

othar

чо koop

of that con

that ha

this

тувіскІ

abratsad by

rarenes

attarpt

at any placio.

Or 10 i are CoraL%.

10180

Mala

40.

J'8"

5

0 8

About 165 poundr

& brome.

cut abort

Lexion

rabiablo

1983,

tos boos

при

---

## Page 15

13-00000

BY

NADA

Lang

CONFISITIL

a rallable

calan.

804

axAr

van

CONHOENTIAL

---

## Page 16

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

8863

CONFRONTA

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Bade

CONF DETTIL

DBA 74348

balas

оа бит

LUH DEMAL

--7-1164

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET 46

SECURIEX INBABMATION

Dares, Is

(EMPATHIZER Reporto

cooriat trenadero

Britt

23 March 1953

Distributions

gallosguartara, a/oncle as socod

2-Ea840

ENCL

sin

• 51-28A

- SECRET

BECURITYUMEFERISATION

KI COPY,

22

@NI+A-00524

200-4 54

---

## Page 19

13-00000

« 84 Moros, 2088.

country:

Subjeet:

Reference:

Surname:

Christian Name:

Born ini

on: (dato):

Nationalfty:

Frofession:

Address:

Type of Passport:

Number:

.Valld untll:

Issued at:

Viaa:

HUNGARY/ARGENTINA

Suspeatod pursons

EIA] 1.

*aRI

Lanard

Romurka:

18th May 1897

HungarIan

Hungarlan Ambassador at BUKNOS-AIRES

BUDAPEST, Rurabeak Schostyne u 18 VI/°

Hungarten Diplomatist Pansport

D - 878/1980

318t Dooember 10,55

BUDAPEST

AUSTRIA, 28th Marab 1051,

gota May 1001

Sed April 1051, 12th May 106

ARGENTIRA, Ath May To6a, 27th Dotober 1961

ARGENTINA,

CZECHOSLOVAKIA, tth February 1903

URUGUAY, 29th Ootobes 1952, THE NETHERLANDS, Sta

Pobruary 1955 (8589817)

Arrivad at sobiphol Iron Bueno-Alros on 18ta

to PRAGUE.

Ho atayod 1n THE NETHERLANDS vIta the FungarIes

Babassy.

KI COPY,

:1-13.661

---

## Page 20

13-00000

do 57380:

country:

subjoot:

Referanoe:

Surnamo:

christian Name:

Suspooted persond

* RODRICA Z BONARARA

BAYARA -

ens (dateli

PSEd PARTUREI 1080

Matlonal1ty:

Ouban

frofcasion:

Emploado

Address:

CUBA

Type of padapniti

ardperyteerport

Number:

84830

Valld until:

20th November 1957

Issued

Fet:

HAVANA

V10a1

Femoke:

S0o My Á.5813, dodo 20d Pabruary 1955.

Ro travelled in the company of RAATAKAS

(payohlatrist) fros sabiphol to ourageo.

Ro has not rooovered Iron bla 111n080.

He started to Curageo on 6th March 1958.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

country:

Subjeet:

Referendo:

Surname:

Christian Name:

Born: in:

0n8 (dato):

Nationality:

Frofession:

Addrcas:

Type of pusapart:

Numbor:

Valld until:

Issued at:

Visa:

Fumurka:

20ta Nones 1083

1.3768.

suspected pürsona

LOMBARDO TOLEDANO

Vloonto

TEZUITIAN, PUS,

16th Jul8 1801

Hosloan

"Dologado Permanento do LA Podarasion 810d1 001

unda ento al consolo Loopontoo Hasloras unides

BXICO, Artiatas 51 Villa Obragon "Diatrito: Fader

Diplomatsot Passport

956-D-359,

MEXICO

CA:CHOSLOVAKIA,

89th Deoember 1952. Trenaltsteps:

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IN 23rd February 1055, OUT 24th

February 19551 AUSTRiA: IN 24th february 1053, Ou

End Maroh 1953; CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IN 2nd March 1965,

OUr 3rd March 1955; SHITZERLAND: Sod Marah. 1955

Arrivod at Schiphol IrOn. Moxtoo on flat Fabruary

1953, In tranait for PRAGUE. Ho travollad in the

COMPANY Of bIA VIrO ROBA MArIA OTERO dO LOMBARDO.

Lia was reLuBod to antor THi MbIHERLA iDi.

on 3rd Marab he travelled from ZURICH tia sohlphol

to Hox100.

Ploase fina herowith a photostat-copy of tha

passport of LOMBARDO-TOLEDANO.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

country:

subjeet:

Referenoe:

surnemo:

ahristian Nare:

1130:39:

1:93:

80th корой и

d. 39990-12

SOUADOR

Suspested

persons

Antonto

see passport

Tea Juy 1914

Fouador

Chofor

ordinars pansport

33621

23xd February 1955

QUITO

AUSTRIA, 24% Fabruary 1953

Arrivod at Sahiphol Irom Bouador on Ath Karah

1953, 1n transit for VIENNA.

• of P.VEGA.

They would attoad a cOngTaro In VIENNA.

Ploado find horonita a photostat-copy of the

---

## Page 23

13-00000

country:

Subjeet:

• Referanoe:

Surname:

born 1n:

on: (dato):

Nationality:

Irofesalon:

19dr. 3s:

"one at passport:

Number:

Valld unt1l:

Isgued at:

V1ga:

Remurks:

21at Marah 1080.

Д. 3773.

CUBA

Suspected persons

MARINELLO Y VILLAURELLA Y

Jues Pollo.

SANTIAGO

End Novamber 1898

•Cub an

Lawyer (loador of the Cuban Cormuniat Party)

Ordinary Passport

2507₴;

25th November 1957

HAVANA

USTRIA INs 4th December 1952, OUT: 6th Februar

1953; FRANCE INS

OUT: 19th February 195

Arrived at Schiphol from PARIS On 19th Fabruary

1953, In tranait for HAVANA.

He travolled in the company of M.J. VIDSURitIA Y.

CANAL (possibly his wifo).

PoBsIbLy they attended the Peaco-Congroad in VIENNI

(Docember 1952).

Contacte at Sobiphol: V.R. SERRET Y ZEFBRA end

F.P. RUSSO ALESI.

Час

---

## Page 24

13-00000

Country:

Subject:

Refererat:

Згнато :

Christiar NeT.r:

Irra. Ini:

?r.: liate!:

idiri ss:

Type r!

Number:

Valld unt1l:

Issued

*:

Visa:

Passport:

Rumurks:

Blat Narah 1960.

1: 3774.

CUBA

Suspented persona

ENTY

VIDAURBILA Y CANAL

Marla Josel

SANTA CLIRA LAS VILIAS.

30th May 1895

Cuban

Profossor

Ordinary Passport

25071

25th November 1957

HAVANA

OUT: 6th February

AUSTRTA ÍN Ath DoGamber OUT 18th Fobruery 1955.

1953; FRANCE IN: ??

Arritod at Sahiphol from PARIS on 19th Fabruary

1953, in transit for HAVANA.

She travelled in the company of JoF MARINELLO Y

VIDAURELLA (possibly her husband).

Possibly they attended the Poaco-Congrosa 1a

W.P.RUSSO ALESI.

Vonc

---

## Page 25

13-00000

Country:

Sut lant:

Catamarge:

?.ri.a..e:

'..."..:

it.: 11a:a.:

...'::

.?:

::.':..

218t Marab 1088.

1. 3775.

CUBA

Suspented persons

I SERRET Y ZEPERA

VIctor Ramon

HAVANA

loth day 1914

cuban

Madloo Cimijano

Ordinary Pasaport

36081

3rd Docember 1953

¡LAVANA

A'STRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 24th January

1955; FRANCE IN: 24th January

Fobriary 1953; ITALY IN: 6th February 1955, OUT:

19th Fobruary 1953.

VIgUN RUSSIA,

17.1.1953, lasued at MOSCOd.

Arrived at Sohiphol Irom ROMA on 19th Pebruary

transit for HAVANA.

Poasibly he attended the Peace-Congross 1a

VIENNA (December 1952) •

Contaots at Schiphol: F.P.RUSSO ALBSI,

JOF LARINELLO Y VIDAURELLA and M.J. VIDAURBILA Y

CANAL.

Loase find herowith & photostat-copy of t

assport of V.R. SERRET Y ZEPERA

Voic

---

## Page 26

13-00000

"auntry:

Sutleet:

Préerer.se:

curlottar: уut.. :

ін":

"р::

' :

27at Maran 1955.

d. 3776.

ITALY

Suspected persons

CHATTI

PUBSO AIRSE (mArrIOd tO BONGIORNO)

FranDosoo Paola

POLIZZI GEUEROSA

22nd December 1935

Italian

Casalinga

POLIZZI GLUEROSA (Provino Palermo)

Ordinary Passport

4253030 Р.

16th Docember 1953

PALERiO

Inmigration-vi sun U.S.A.

Arrivad at Schiphol from PALERMO on 19th February

1953, In transit for NEW-YORK-CHICAGO.

Contacts at Schiphol: V.R. SERRET Y ZEFERA,

JOF MARINELLO Y VIDAURELLA and M.J. VIDAURELIA Y

CANAL.

Please find harowith a photostat-oopy of tho

passport of RUSSO ALESI, F.P.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

945: 31:90: "uro:

bert. 1a:

Trent purinart:

:...: 1::

tia:

20th Marah 1053.

1. 3770.

CUBA

ДИЗЕЕТЕСЗ РЕРЗАПУ

:MAR Y VARBATIN

Padro Jullo

The RepublIo DOMINICA

35d йнаа 1913

Cuban

Laryor

ordinary Passport

19736

188 August 1854

HAVANA

AUSTRIA, lat December 1952

M. was

1n

the posadasion of 3 visa on a 10090

s::oot of papor (CZECHOSLOVAKIA and probably

A STRIA)

i.. arrivod at Schiphol from PRAGUE on 20th

Pobruary 1853, In tranalt for London-Airport.

Possibly ho attondod the Peaco-Con-"do: En

VIENNA (Vocamber 1952).

"prague magnos protograph, brazized:

"Praguo; Imago:

Ploase 11nd na:.::: e photostat-cuc" oi tho

passport or "i

"ALENTIN.

---

## Page 28

13-00000

8th Marab 1055.

A. 3728.

Country:

CUBA

Subject:

Suspected purgons

Refarence:

surnano: !

christian Nur.r.:

Pailo

Porn in:

HAVANA

Oh: (date):

15th January 1895

lationality:

Cuban

Irofession:

Labourer

Aldrres:

HAVANA

Type ri passport:

ordinary Passport

Number:

24970

al1d unt1l:

22nd November 1957

Issued tet:

HAVANA

Visa:

AUSTRIA, 4th Decembor 1952

Femurks:

Arrived at Schiphol from HAVANA on 26t1

In transit for VIENNA.

Rafaol.

Pleado find horowith a photostat-copy of the

passport of SANDoVAL HERRERA.

---

## Page 29

13-00000

201h Mares 1988:

во 3769.

Country:

Subjeet:

Referanoe:

Surname:

Christian Namo:

sorn In:

on: ¡dato):

Hat10n911t4:

Frofession:

ECUADOR

Suspected persons

* VEGA

Pao1f100

Soo passport

16th February

• 1917

Eouador

Chofer

edwind

Type ri pueapart:

lumber:

until:

4,0:

1130:

ordinary Passport

33750

23rd Fabruary 1955

QUITO

MUSTRIA, 24th Fobruary 1953

Por.rig:

Arrivod at Sahiphol On Ath March 195S, la trecass

for VIENNA.

Ho travolled Iron Fouador via Asstardon end

zarlob to VIENNA 1n the oompany of A TILLACIC.

They mould attend a congress 1s t.ElLA.

loano lind baronia a photostat-posy s u

'Ime

---

## Page 30

13-00000

8ы хоров 2088 ..

1. 3729.

cars try:

cuad.

Jut feet:'

Stispected persona

Refarondo:

(PARTI

Surnese: "

1.4VIIA 005Z49E9

• Fittached

seen to;

Fratergleri

1115r0°:

w1t00::11

BOLONIE,

1082 2225.1916

Cuban

DrI VOT

HAVANA

Ordinary passport.

01501

......

14tb Fobruary 1956

HAVANA

A:STRIA, 18th Fabruary 1955.

Arrivod at Sabiphol from HAVANA On 26th

Fobruary

1980, In tranalt for vistilla.

He travellad 1n the company of SANDOVAL, HERRERA,

Pablo.

ploudo flid borowith a photostat-copy as tho

PRESpOrt Of AVILA GONZALES.

260-4.811341'

---

