# 104-10119-10036

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10119-10036)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

--

ATTACHMENT TO #4680 F SD/1/H

Hoven, Findin

fro

pri, a405.

204680-20

The

---

## Page 2

14-00000

6 December 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT

: Herbert Itkin/Mario Brod

1. Pursuant to your instructions, I had NY FO interview

Mr. Philip HORION, to ascertain whether or not he might be the

Philip HARBIN, who was allegedly ITKIN's contact with the Agency

during 1954. Reference is made to the attached report of interview

of Mr. HORTON wherein he comments that he does not know ITKIN;

did not recruit him; and never acted as a "cut-out" or handler for

Mr. ITKIN. HORTON states further that since leaving OSS, he has

had no contact with the CIA. (This is not strictly true, since he

did write a letter to Mr. Helms not too long ago.)

2. I will ask the Office of Finance to attempt a trace of the

receipt for $5, 000. 00 that ITKIN claims he gave HARBIN in

approximately 1957. However, I am inclined to believe that this

recruitment is a figment of ITKIN's imagination.

Wacksene

Ward K. Greene

SA/EPD

Attachment

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do No? Roproduca

C20.97

avis on ta

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

RUC

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

NEW YORK

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

4 680

HORION, Philip C.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

2 December 1968

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

HEADQUARTERS

REPORT MADE BY 03

(DITLEY, JOhn WJ

CHARACTER OF CASE

F SD/1/H

DATE

2 December 1968

APPROVED:

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

DISTRIBUTION:

HDQS - orig

HDOS - 1

NYFO - 1

1080 646 088 99848000 10191099

(49)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CASE NO. 4 680

GENERAL:

At New York, N. Y.

On 2 December 1968, Mr. Philip Clark HORTON was interviewed at his

employment, New School for Social Research, Center for New York City

Affairs, 72 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. Mr. HORTON was cooperative.

Mr. HORTON stated he did not know Mr. Herbert ITKIN and did not

recruit him.

Mr. HORTON further stated that he did not act as a

'cut-out"

or handle Mr. ITKIN at any time.

In fact, Mr. HORTON stated that since leaving the Office of

Strategic Services that he has had no contact with its successor

organization; namely, the Central Intelligence Agency.

Attached herets is the photograph of HORTON, which Headquarters

requested be returned upon completion of assignment.

Attachment:

photo

JWD/ jhw

- 1 -

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ATTACHMENT TO #4680 F SD/1/H

---

## Page 6

14-00000

ATTACHMENT TO #4680 F SD/1/H

---

