# 104-10216-10171

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10216-10171

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10 Juse 1964

HELORDUL FOR THE RECORD

SUEJECT : Tosts of Modified Sigats for 7.G2 Polgius (FAL) RIflo

REFERRICK:

Yond for Red, dated 23 Lay 61, Subjoct Fal Silorcers/

SIghts, IrOn CHIVSAID/P'S

1. On 2 June 1961, U5. Donald R. Duns, TSD/EB ard tho

•urdersionod went to Isolation to test a nodified sight and a

tolescopic sight davalopad or tho 7.62 Esleium (FiL) RIflO 1I

The tosts were performod with tho assistarco

0f is. Jazes Barb and Us. Glen Nirstoad,

Tho first tosts wore conducted

with a Hillians Roop sight

Bodilled to fit an aluzinun block which

was mounted in place of

stanuard Eil roar sight.

Tho dilliang sight bas a largor dissater

paop than the fal sight ard las a uidor rango of slovation settings

as toll as noro positive co:trol ovor both olovation and tiadage.

Tho sain purposo of tho test was to establish a poirt of rajoronco

on the alusious block to natch the craduations on the willlans

sight ard alloy the sight to be sot visially for tho cosirod rango

onco tho voapon das zarood.

Firing commoncod fron 100 yarda at a silhouotte targot

milag tho hood of a jeep 25 = rost.

Lich undorloadod and iull load

rounds tere usod.

Light rain which eradually incroased in latensity

duriro tho day served to complicato the procedurs.

results et rangas 1:on 25.yos, to 130 jis. using tho filliana

Eight are surmarized 1n Atticiment I.

arceedingly crratic rosults

voro obtained througiout the tests and oza attesat to duplícato

the 100 yo, 20r0 resulted in a different setting later in the day.

d. 2% scope of Japaneso ranufacturo oquipped with alurina

nounting rings frust and roar to jit tho rear gas port anü roar

sight nount respectivaly thes testod.

The scope was attachod to

the rifle sith difliculty and atteapts to zero it vore crustratod

by the inability to coteriine inero the riflo vas snooting.

counting coved thilo attonyti:¿ to adjust the olovation kuob and 1t

nas dotarainod that the nount could not to attached liruly enouga

to lasuro 1a retaiaing a proper z0ro.

The tost with the scopo

BaB abOrteL.

Lask-1 File

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5.

It 18 recamonded tiat the scopo and count bo clicarcad

BO UnICaSiblO.

To willlens siebt is accopiablo althouzi tho

nuabar of clicks por rovolution of tho kras should to roducad.

Furthor tosting of the uidarloaded s=uiltion should bo con-

ductos to catarmino tho reasona for tha erratic parloranco.

C/TSD

Attachnebt:

DDP/TSD/EB/DJH/ EC

E/TSO/SDA

Stated

Emin

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

ATTACHINT I

2 June 1964

Hallans Poop Sight

At 25 jes., roduced loads

Ra1s0 sight 60 clicka fron botton

Natch rel. line to 4th 11n0 Iros top

At 50 yds., roducod loads

Ralsa sight 80 clicks fro= botton

listch ros. line to ith line fros tOD

At 73ydg., reduced loads

Ralso slylt 80 to 110 clicks fros botton

¡TiTUn1t1On porIorIance very erratio, uido varianco on targot

At 100 yas., reduced loads

Ra1so sight 120 to 160 clicks

Ist trial, 160 cl1cks,

little variasCo

linich rol. lino to 9th line fros top

2nd trla1 3

ars. lator, 120 clicks

watch rof. 11n0 to Ith Ilne fron top

At 150 jas.,

roduced loads

sight 230 clicks (1 trial)

Natch rof. line to 12.5 11ne from top

Could not mount toloscopic sight proporly. Began process of

shooting In scopo, found it noved.

: At. 200 yds., Lull loads

InISo sight & clicks from botton

At 150 yds.,

full loads

Ralso sight 8 clicka Iron bottom.

Interuittant rain throughout tests.

Cases with reduced loads toro noted to do blackenod at nect

BIter IIIing.

suspected to be lou prossures not causiny

sufficient caso espansion to obtain propor soal.

This can

contribute to erratic perforcanco.

Recomend gas port be turned

to ofi position to provent action fron opening and allow12g

BaS 1Ba6.

AlBO InVestigato solt anneslIng case necis.

SERRET

---

