# 104-10052-10208

## Page 1

1704-10052-10208

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C. SEGRET / KAPOK C

REQUEST FOR PROJECT RENEWAL

PROJECT:

LIENVOY

CASE OFFICER:

Hielard ( Castes

Willard C. CURIIS

STATION:

Mexico City

CHIEF OF STATTON

Dieland Eas

Willard C. CURIIS

tan

11360x65

ECt-1-11AMA -25141

I COPY

GRDUP 1

Excladed from sulematic

downgrading and

declassilicatina

50-6-75/1

RISIDE OF ATT. MIE HMMA-

50-6-75 i41

02777

---

## Page 2

14-00000

C. SEGRET ALAPERC

PROJECT LIENVOY RENEWAL

A. CURRENT OBJECTIVES

The Lawor Project provides for a joint KUBARK-Mexican Government sponsored)

telephone tap unit and for (a non-official liaison relationship with access to24

the highest ranking government officials of Mexico.

The tap unit provides

direct support necessary to cover targets and operational programs levied on the

Mexico Station via the RMD as well as spot requests from Headquarters and other

Stations. This Project also produces positive intelligence.

B. CHANGES

(1) Operational Mechanism

9 The LINNVOY Project was created in late 1958)and put into operation ir

arly (1959) at the request of ([ITENSOR) who appointed LIFLEGANT as his special 01, 424

assistant to work with Willard C. CURIIS in the supervision and administration of

the project.

In mid-1964 it became evident that (LIRAMA would replace LITENSOR)in24

December 1964. (LIRANA Vas the LIPO 2 ani a clandestine leison contact with 24

Willard C. CURTIS under the LIIIMPO Project but was not knowledgeable of the

CURIIS/LIELEGANT/LITENSOR relationship in Project LIENVOY.) On 10 August 1964

1,01 LIRAMA (LITEMPO-2) asked CURTIS and LIFLEGANT for a conference (reported to Head.

quarters in MEXI-0521 dated 10 August 1964).

At this meeting, (LIRAMA advised that

Ol'(LITENSOR) had briefed him on the LTENVOY Project In detail and that it should be ?!

continued with the same personnel and manner of operation. ' (TELEGANI) and CIENVOY-2

have been given nominal positions which provide cover for dally reports to LIrAMAs/

31: Government credentials)are also being provided for Staff Agent Arnold F. ARDHART

and the local agents working in the IP. @TRAMA) has requested that the IP remain

In its present location and has provided a credential for the inside of the front

doorway which prohibits entry to anyone without special permission obtained from 24

his office,

(2) Agents

During the last project year there have been no changes in the agent

personnel.

For the Information of reviewing officials there is enclosed as

Attachment-I, a chart listing current LIFVOY targets as well as functions of

LTENVOY agents. Arnola F. AREHART, Staff Agent, has been responsible for mainten-

ance of the technical eguipment for the past five years. His work continues to

be outstanding and accounts for the fact that after almost six years' use, the

equioment 1s in good working order and has sustained a minimm of loss through

negligent breakage or theft (both very common in Mexico).

There has been no major

mechanical breakdown since ARDHART has been supervising the maintenance of the

equipment.

INLELALIGENCE FRODUGLLON

While telephone tap operations are commonly classified as "support operations",

the ITINVOY Project by nature of some of its targets, has produced considerable

SPERET / MAPOR

19/1V

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-2 -

positive intelligence. It has been reviewed both at Headquarters and in the

Mexico Station as one of the most productive telephone tap projects in KUBARK

of both FI and CI/CE information.

(1) FI information.

From 1 February 1964 through 31 December 1964, this

project was the source of 240 positive reports.

The general subject categories

within which these reports fall as related to objectives of the most recent RMD

(HMMS-3190 dated 21 October 1963) are:

Priority A. 1, 2, 3, and Priority B. 1, 2, and 4.

Cuban Embassy Activities in Medico

Soviet Embassy Activities in Mexico

24

Activity of Mexican Government with regard to intentions and strategy

in domestic and foreign affairs

ommunist Party of Mexico (PCM) Activitles In Mexic

ommunist Front Activities (Movimiento Liberacion Nacional - MLN) 1

Mexico

Activities.

vi thee Communlot, Jestlat, OF outspoken Ants-PAPRIME pol1t1cal 24

Activities of Communist China representatives in Mexico

(2) CI/CE Information.

In addition to the general subject categories of

FI Interest, the LIBNVOY Project fulfills a standing requirement to provide

CI/CE data on the following selected targets: Cuban Embassy • six lines; Soviet

Embassy - five lines; Czech Embassy - two lines; Polish Embassy - 2 lines;

Yugoslav Enbassy - two lines (disconnected in April 1964); and the Communist

Chinese News Agency (NCNA) - one line. (being installed as of January 1965).

D. ENYECHIVENESS

(1) From 1 February 1964 through December 1964 (eleven months) the LLENVOY

Project covered a total of 30 (thirty) targets simultaneously which provided

7,462 reels of raw take. This was processed into 21,564 pages of transcripts

(of this amount actual count by ITHWOY processors was 17,064 pages, an estimate

by the outside Czech translator was 1,500 pages,

Russian translator 2,000 pages,

and Polish translator 1, 000).

Enclosed as Attachment-2 1s a copy of the work

load log and list of targets which Arnold F. AREHARI provides the Station on a

monthly basis.

This log, of course, includes only the work done Inside the LP

and variance of monthly figures is accounted for by additional work done by other

Station (unilateral)) trenslators.

(2) (a) MexicanTargets. Of the 30 llnes covered, 15 of them are always

exclusively for KUBARK. The remaining targets are selected by (LIRAMA) but are

usually of interest to KUBARK as sources of positive intelligence.. The (Mexican

targets

covered during the past project year were:

SECRET / KAF

KAPCK

4|12

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Lly net

Politica

or ofrees

- 3-

MLN

20-83 46

Lazaro Cardenas Del Rio

20 30 18

Lazo-co cardent, Det -PRI ex-President of Mexico)

24

18

18

Eraulio Maldonado: Sandes

15

80

29

(pro-Commnist, former Governor of Baja California,

anti-PBPRIME, organizer of the Movimiento Ilberacion

Nacional, MIl, anti-PEPRIME, pro-Cuba Communist front)

23 85 25

Alonso Aguilar Monteverde

(prominent Mexdcan Marist intellectual, titular bead

of the Movimiento Liberacion Nacional, MIN, member of

Comite Mexicano por Paz - Mexican Peace Committee,

Former head of the Circulo Estudios Mexicanos - CEM -

Commnist Front Cultural Group.)

46 12 70

Vicente Lombardo Toledano

(Mexican Marxist labor leader)

35 59 82

Union Nacional Sinarquista

(Rightist Catholic group)

45 59 52

David Alfaro Sigueiros

(painter and Conmunist rabble rouser)

35 36 52

Politica

(b1-weekly Marist, anti-PRPRIME, pro-Cuba magazine)

-

13

35

21

14

66 54

Francisco Galindo Ochoa

(Press Secretary for the Partido Revolucionario

Institucional - PRI)

46 11 30

D.F.S. (private line of the Director, Manuel Rangel

Escamilla)

46 60 16

Prensa Latina

46 60 15

(Castro Cuban subsidized tabloid)

43 15 06

Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero

(member of National Executive Committee of Movimiento

Liberacion Nacional - MIN)

agracia Acostas Lagune

(pro-Conmnistrala: to General -Lezaro Cardenas Del Rio

ind leader in the Movimiento Liberacion Nacional - MiN)

•10 29 69

Movimiento Liberacion Nacional - MIN

(antI-PBPRIME, pro-Cuban Communist Front group)

SECRET / KAPEK

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET / KAPOK

-4-

46 22 19

10 27

24

Armando Castillejos Ortiz

(Leader of the Partido Comnista Bolchevique, Partido

Comunista Mexicano. - PCM splinter group)

Juan Ortega Arenas

leader of Frente

get one Part o Consta Mes canalent

1Of the 19 targets listed above, 15 were covered simultaneously depending

spon (Mexican) interest

in the individual at the time; however, lines to all the

above run Into the intercept center and can be connected as machines become

available when other lines are out of order or disconnected for one reason or

monitors extract significant conversations and Include them in the

To extract alent alone conversation and include them in the feesumeny 24

the original of which is read daily by (LIRAMA)and a copy of which 1s delivered

daily to the Mexico Station.

the reels are retained usually for ten days for

"resumer", or by

by 0800 hours, one copy 1s hand-carried by LINWVOY-2 to LIRAMa,) At the same time,

Arnold F. AREHARI delivers a copy to Robert B. RIGGS for delivery to Willard C.

CURTIS.

A third copy is delivered to (LTELEGANT by LLENVOY-2))

The fourth copy 1s

retained in a chronological file in the intercept center. il, ol

(b) KUBARK Targets.

The Mexico Station CI/CE requirement is partially

fulfilled by LIENVOY which during the past project year covered the telephone

lines of the Cuban Imbassy, Soviet Embassy, Czech imbassy, Folish imbassy, Yugoslav

Embassy, and made preliminary installation for the Commnist Chinese News Agency

(NCNA) .

There follows selected significant examples of the LIENVOY product from

each of these targets with a Station appraisal of its effectiveness.

1. Cuban Embassy. The six lines covered are:

14 42

25

14

07

37

The Ambassador's private telephone

The Chancery

The Chancery

25

11

09

14

the Commercial Office

28

47

The Consulate

25 07 77 Mena Vasquez Gomez

The Chancery and Consulate lines regularly Identify foreigners in

Mexico who contact the Cuban Embassy.

Expeditious processing.of

the transcripts frequently permits the Station to arrange for

unilateral survetllance and identification of other contacts. The

Cormercial Office coverage provides Information on Cuban Commercial

activities in Mexico and identification of firms dealing with Cuba.

The Flena Vasquez Gomez target has been of interest in connection

with the AMROD operation.

The AMROD Headquarters Case Officer, Thomas

SEGNCT / KAPCK

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET / RAPESC

- 5 -

G. URQUHARI (ps), presently in Mexico on temporary duty has

provided the Station with the following evaluation of the LENVOY

product:

"The LINVOY production on the Cuban Embassy traffic In

Mexico City has been one of the basic elements contributing to the

success of the AMROD operation, directed against the CUIS for CA

purposes.. The LIENVOY operation has been of value in two general

senses:

The documentary material derived from the texts has

formed some of the basis for reconstruction of historical facts

needed for the operation.

b.. The day to day coverage has enabled

the case officer on the AMROD operation to sense the climate inside

the target, to keep track of the movements of key opposition personnel,

to check on the bona fides of certain agents, to check the work of

others for veracity and to live monitor portions of the reactions

to the AMROD operation itself.. Being able to keep track of the

shifts and movements of the opposition and their personal relations

has been of vital importance to this operation.

On two occasions

the AMROD Case Officer also used the LIENVOY base as his cormand

post when engineering personal contacts between a KUBARK staffer

and the opposition.

This type of close support did much to determine

the success of those meetings and contributed greatly to the success

of the operation.

These transcripts provide one of the best sounding

boards for the AMROD operation and are regularly forwarded to me at

Headquarters."

The six lines above are fully transcribed by LIENVOY transcribers

and delivered by AREHART to RIGGS each morning.

Lengthy conversa-

tions sometimes require an additional day for transcription.. A

carbon copy is pouched weekly to Headquarters for WH/SA use. The

original is retained by the Mexico Station.

A third copy is retained

In the Intercept center chronological flles.| (LIRAMA does not read

these transcripts unless some significant item appears in the

"[resumen" which causes him to ask for a fuller transcript or listen

to the tape.

The coverage of this target also yields a good picture of daily

activities, residences, personal habits and weaknesses of Cuban

official personnel in Mexico.

This is used by Station Case OffIcers

In selection of targets for recruitment and in checking on activities

of agents already recruited and either working for or in contact

-with Embassy officials.

2. Soviet. Embassy.

The Soviet Government has over fifty officials

permenently statloned in Mexico (the largest foreign embassy except

for the U.S.).. Thirty-lour of these Soviets (almost 70 percent of

the staff) are-mown or suspect Intelligence officers. The five.-

lines under LIENVOY provide details on the activities of most of

these Soviets.

The lines are:

-43?

SEBREN/ MAPCH

---

## Page 7

14-00000

C.. SEGRET/ KAPCK

- 6 -

15 60 55

Soviet Consulate and Chancery. This line is used by

fIfteen (15) known or suspect KGB officers. It is also

used by foreigners in Mexico attempting to make contact with

the soviets.

When contacts suggest clandestine meetings, the

Station arranges for unilateral surveillance and has had

some success in identifying contacts.

15

61 55

Soviet Chancery. This line 1s used primarily by the Ambassador

and provides more information on protocol contacts than leads

of intelligence interest.

However, it gives the Station a

picture of the personalities being cultivated by Soviet

diplomats and of Mexicans who are seeking contacts with the

Soviets.

15 61 07

Soviet Commercial Office.

Four (4) known or suspect GRU

officers use this number.

they are Military Intelligence

officers using Commercial Office cover and in some instances

actually perform commercial functions of trade negotiations

but the volume of trade between Mexico and the USSR does

not justify a Commercial Office staff of eight (8) Soviets.

This produces some Information useful to check on double

agent operations run by the Station against the GRU officers.

In addition, the LIENVOY product usually identifies the

GRU officers as escorts for trade, scientific, commercial,

and tourist delegations who now are constantly on trips

from the USSR to Mexico. LIHNVOY also provides details of

the Itineraries of these groups once they arrive in Mexico.

15 12 64 Soviet FIlms OffIce.

This leads into the residence and

office of Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV, a suspect GRU officer,

who distributes Soviet Commercial Films in Mexdco.. There

have been several calls from what appear to be Central

Americans but the Station has not been successful in identify

ing the callers or determining the nature of the calls.

15 69 87

Soviet Military Attache.

This is the least productive of

the coverage simply because the Soviet Military officers

either won't answer the telephone or spend very little time

where it rings.

Nevertheless, U.S. AWOL servicemen try

this number to make contact.

There are three GRU colonels

and six (6) civilian GRU officers who use this line.

The Soviet information is transcribed by the LIENVOY transcribers in

the same way as the Cuban traffic except that the transcripts are

delivered daily with

the reels from which an outside translator

(Douglas J. FEINGLASS) transcribes the Russian conversations into

English.

These Russian conversations are of considerable value and

It is apparent that the Soviets are not aware that these conversations

are being overheard and understood.

There have been conversations

identifying code room personnel; one conversation between two Soviet

children revealed the entire layout of the Soviet Commercial Office;

personality clashes and grievances are also aired.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

-?-

In June 1964 the SR Division. made available personnel for temporary

duty in Mexico to analyze and collate personality and background

data collected by LIHWOY but which had accumulated in Station

files on Soviet officials. These Soviet Personality Reports (SPR)

should be useful on a world-wide basis as Soviet officials are

ransierred Iron post to post, in providing the kubark representativ

"ith a sumary of the Soviet's past work pattern, intelligenc

activities as far as known, physical description, weaknesses, and

vulnerability toward recruitment by a Western service.

Not all but

a large percentage of this data is received from LINVOY.

3. Czech ambassy. Two lines in the Chancery (45-30-91 and 45-30-12

are covered by LIENVOY.

Reels from these targets are delivered

daily by AREHART to RIGGS who delivers them to the HE Case Officer

who arranges for transcription and translations to be done by David

B. SCHLAGHIER, field contract agent.

This agent also prepares a

monthly sumary of information on the activities of Czech officials

In Mexico.

During September 1964 LIHNVOY revealed Important informa-

tion on the establishment of a factory equipped with Czech machinery

to produce dyes in Mexico (ANYL, MEX).

In addition to the significance

of this Information in assessing Czech economic activities in Medco,

there was operational benefit in dealing with DISOBER, a Czech

official on temporary duty in Mexico in connection with the opening

of this factory.

eat on anary deny it in doo:

4.

Polish Embassy.

LIENVOY covers one line (11 25 49) in the main

Chancery which produces data on the activities of Polish officials

stationed in Mexico.

The second line (25 82 38) 1s the private line

of Polish Commercial Counselor, Czeslaw SLOWAKIEWIEZ, In whom the

Mexico Station has a definite operational interest as a recruitment? 4

• Reels (without transcripts) from these targets are delivered

darly to ARRANT to RICES who deliver them to the don oer her

who arranges for translations and transcriptions to be done by Norma

Q. RYMINSKY, & contract employee.

5. Yugoslav Embassy.

During part of the project year LIENVOY

covered two lines in this Embassy.

The lines were disconnected by

LIENVOY In April 1964 and transferred to LIFEAT? The reason for

this termination was to conceal interest in IMPITAL, an agent recrulted

as a result of a follow-up of a lead supplied through LIENVOY coverage.

During the time this target was covered, LIENVOY transcribers provided

transcriptions of the Spanish conversations.

The reels were then

delivered to Victor W. OBOLD, a career agent who provided translations.

On 18 December, 1964 Willard

lof Commnist China using journalist cover for an intelligence mission

IRAMA agreed to install LIHNVOY coverage of this line and (share the 2

take with the Mexico Station), This will be a Mexican line and 24

replace the present coverage of the D.F.S,: the Station hopes to use

this information to influence (LIRAMA)to declare these persons persona

non grata. LIFEAT has been taken off bf this target.

SANTA / MAPOK

---

## Page 9

14-00000

... SECRET / KAPO

- 8-

In summary,

the Station Case Officers responsible for established FI

and CI/CE programs

feel that LINVOY has made a very necessary intelligence

support contribution.

It should be noted that LINVOY facilities during the

project year produced about three times the volume of raw audio take as that

produced by LIFEAT over the same length of time at approximately one half the

cost.

This is possibly due to the centralized tapping and transcribing facilities

of LIENVOY as compared with the widely scattered ones of LIFEAI.

MEWOY as a 24

11a10n tap operation) 1s able to tap any phone desired whereas LIFEAT, (as a 24

milateral operation

must take greater security precautions.

The Chief of

Station Mexico feels that the success of Station Mexico's operational progran

against the Cuban, Soviet and Soviet Satellite Installations and personnel in

Mesico is largely attributable to the continuous and thorough coverage of these

targets provided by LIENVOY. COS recommends that the project be renewed for

another year as an essential collection and support operation for the Mexico

Station.

E.

PROBLEMS

There have been no significant security, cover, control, or liaison problems

during the project year.

24

F. LIAISON)

This Project continues to encompassan unofficial lleison relationship with

high-level Mexican government officials and contributes to the friendly attitude

of these officials toward ODYOKE.

Some examples are:

January 1964 CURIIS met withLITENSOR to discuss Communist China and

was told by (LITENSOR that the Nexican Government would not recognize Red China 2u

during his administration)

JRIIS had several meetings with LIFLEGANT during April 1964 wh

JELEGANT provided information from LITENSOR on Communist agitation throughoi

Mexico.

c). In August 1964 CUANTS and (BANT) net vatta (LIRA) to discuss the

continuation of the LIENVOY Project.

NG, saW LIRAMA •

held between CURTIS and (LIRAMA) prior to this trip.

e).

On 7 November 1964 Chester D. DAINOLD and Cedric B. PAPATE accompanied

CURIIS to a meeting with LIRAMA)where DATNOID and PAPATE gave briefings on the

Cuban

situation and on Latin America.

Full details of these briefings were

reported to Headquarters in HMMA-24700 RYBAT dated 9 November 1964.

SECRET / KAPOX

i5)m

---

## Page 10

14-00000

c. SECRET / KAPOK C

- 9 -

. On 9 December 1964 LIRAMA) asked CURTIS for assistance in providing

ecial ink for the exclusive use of LIRAMA In signing important documents

Headquarters KURIOT fulfilled this request by supplying the ink and sending 24

& specialist to Mexico to instruct LIRAMA In Its use,

8). On 16 December 1964 CURTIS met with (TRAM) and provided him with

Information on Cuban Embassy activities and association with members of Mexican

universities, Personalities in the S.N.T.E. and, pro-Cuban associations, Capture

of guerrillas, arms and documents in Guatemala, Chinese Commnists In Mexico, and

Communist Activities In Chihuahua.

Copies of information given to LIRAMA were

pouched to Headquarters.

G. INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION.

• No formal coordination is required in this Project.

Chief, PBSWING, Mexico,

Is the only ODYOKE official in Mexico outside KUBARK who is aware of this project

and Its provision for a (special channel to LIRAMA?" Special briefings are cleared

with PBSWING before KUBARK representatives meet with LTRAMAP/ CURIIS advises Chief,

PESWING of significant and pertinent subjects which are discussed in meetings

between CURIIS and (LTRAMA.)

I. PLANS.

The Station plans to continue the intercepto program without change for the

next project year.

As previously noted, LIRAMA has asked that the project

continue without a change in personnel or in the manner of operation.

I. FUNDS.

1. For the past period.

The cost of the LIMNVOY Project (paid by Mexico Station exclusive

of Headquarters costs) from I February 1964 through 30 June 1964 was

Us $19,415.22 and from 1 July 1964 through 31 December 1964 $23, 677.68

and for January 1965 $5,000.00 1s estimated.

? During the next project year.

During the period 1 February 1965 through 31 January 1966, an

estimated amount of US S+T, 468.00 will be required with US $19, 010 to

be spent from 1 February 1965 through 30 June 1965 and $28,458.00 to be

spent from 1 July 1965 through 31 January 1966. ....

SECRET / KAPC"

---

## Page 11

14-00000

C. SECRET / MPORC

- 10 .

3. Agent Salaries.

ol

LTENVOYER)

LIENVOY -4

LTEINVOY-5

LIENVOY-6

LIENVOY-7

LIENVOY-11

LTENVOY-12

LIENVOY-14

LIENVOY-15

LIENVOY-16

LIENVOY-18

Christmas bonus one month's pay 1965

Contingency fund for new agents or

severance pay

Operational expenses

Local purchase supplies & equipment

Upkeep of QP vehicle (1)

Safehouse rental

Entertairment & gifts for Mexican

officials

Purchase of Information Via LLENVONE!

FY 1965

2,400.00

1,200.00

1,200.00

800.00

800.00

1,200.00

1,200.00

800.00

260.00

800.00

1,200.00

950.00

800.00

1,000.00

200.00

1,000.00

2, 000.00

1,200.00

TOTAL $

19.,010.00

EX 1966

$

3,360.00

1,680.00

1,680.00

1,120.00

1,120.00

1,680.00

1,680.00

1,120.00

364.00

1,120.00

1,680.00

2,320.00

1,334.00

1,200.00

1,500.00

400.00

1,500.00

2,000.00

1,600.00

$ 28,458.00

J. ANNEX.

on two occasions during the Project year, the Station requested KURIOT

assistance in making & technician available for temporary duty replacement for

Arnola F. ARDHARI.

Newton I. RUTSAY came to Mexico In May and September 1964

to supervise the tap center and maintain the equipment.

The Headquarters

support furnished this project was timely and commendable.

K. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.

There has been no change in emergency conditions arrangements since the

last project renewal request.

SECRET / KOPCK

---

## Page 12

14-00000

LIENVOY PROJECT

STATION

Willard C. Curtis

Case Officer

FE Case Officer

Robert B. Riggs

Case Officer

D. Schlageter

Contract Agent

Czech

N.Q. Ryminsky

Contract Employee

Polish

Arnold F. Arehart

Staff Agent

Mexican Supervisor

24

Field Agent

MONITORS

TRANSCRIBERS

LIENVOY - 4

LIENVOY -5

LIENVOY-11

LIENVOY-12

LIENVOY-6 Cuban Tapes

LIENVOY-7

Cuban Tapes

LIENVOY-16 Russian Tapes (Spanish)

TARGETS

KUBARK:

S - Cuban Embassy (21 13 47, 25 07 953

25 09 14

11 28 47

14 13

1 - Vazquez Gomez (25 07 77)

5 - Soviet Embassy. (15

55,

15

12

64

15

61

55

15 69

87,

2 - Czech Embassy

(45

15

45

61

07)

30

91,

2 - Polish Embassy (11

SO

12)

49,

25

82

58)

COST:

0l

(I TRAMA

•/ CIELEGANT

PI CIERGO)

• ETENVOY/L)

U.S. 17,168. per annum

D. Feinglass

Staff Agent

Russian

WATCHMAN

LIENVOY-15

FILES

LIENVOY-14

ATTACHMENT No. I to

LIENVOY Project Renewal

Forwarded in IMMA-25141

MEXICANS: -

2. - Gen. Cardenas (20 30 18,

20 83 46)

2 - Prensa Latina (16 60

16,

46

60 15)

2 - Galindo Ochoa

(35 66

54g 15

21 14)

1 = L1C. Aguilar ( 20 85 25)

1 - Lic. Lombardo Toledano (46 12 70)

1

- Sinarquista (35 59 82)

1

- Alfaro Siqueiros (45 59 52)

• Politica (35 56 52)

- Lic. Gonzalez Pedrero (43.15 06)

1 - M.L.N. (10 29 69)

1 - Castillejos Ortiz (46 22 19)

1 JANUARY 1965

MEXICO DF

---

## Page 13

14-00000

MONTH

RESUME PAGES

CZECH TAPES

RUSA TAPES

_RUSA PAGSS

POLACA TAPES

CUBANA TAPES

CUBANA PAGES

"MISC ITO"S

OTHER T TES USED

LOTALS

JAN

102

55

110

763

8

104

670

22

113

1947

FEB

119

41

118

864

39

147

798

32

401

12559

ATTACHMENT No. 2 to

LIENVOY Project Renewal

Forwarded In HMMA-2514]

MAR

116

20

94

790

25

154

713

15

389

2316

1964 WORK LOAD FOR LINVOY PROJECT

APR

120

24

123

825

46

144

664

28

394

2268

MAY

JUN

131

122

26

137

862

36

46

112

795

54

167

679

37

314

2389

162

748

27

236

12302

JUL

144

40

110

805

52

197

879

21

269

12517

AUG

107

45

108

737

50

198

612

19

308

2184

SEP

121

44

109

763

49

147

553

14

346

2146

OCT

78

45

115

803

47

180

"634

28

272

2202

NOV

92

41

104

633

50

180

714

41

303

2158

DEC

98

44

119

495

40

176

460

41

315

1788

TOTAL

1350

471

1359

9135

496

1956

8124

325

3560

26776

Arnold. 7. Archant.

---

## Page 14

14-00000

NAQUINA. LINDA TELSECNO SUSCRISTOS

OBSERVACIONES.

1

2

1

39

3

7

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20-

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

5

32

45

34

9

10

36

12

13

47

43

16

33

11

14

20

44

35

33

19

18

25

23

29

31.

2

25

20-30-18 GRAI. LAZARO GARDONAS DEL RIO

46-22-19 LIC. AR ANDO CASTILLEJOS ORTIS

20-83-46 GRAL. LAZARO CARDTMAS DEL RIO

99

23-35-25 - LIC. ALONSO NEUILAI MONTEVERDE

46-12-70

LIC. VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO

35÷59-82

UNION MACIONAL SI'ARQUISTA

11-25-49

EMBAJADA POLICA

15-50-55

EMBAJADA RUSA

145-59-52

DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS

35-36-52

99

REVISTA POLITICA

14-42-37

EMBAJADA CUB.LWA

45-30-91

ELBAJADA CHECA

25-07-95

EMBAJADA CUBANA

25-09-14

EMBAJADA CUBANA

25-32-38

ERBATADA POIACA

(45-11-30

D.F.S.799

15-12-54

EMBAJADA RUSA

11-23-47

EMBAJADÀ CUBANA

35-66-54

FRANCISCO GALINDO OCHOA

46-60-16

PRENSA LATINA

43-15-06

LIC. ENRIQUE GONZALEZ FSDRERO

99

15-51-55

EMBAJADA RUSA

45-60-15

PRENSA LATINA

13-21-14 FRANCISCO GALINDO OCHOA

99

25-07-77 SIEMA VAZQUEZ GOMEZ

15-59-87- EMBAJADA 3USA=

15-61-07

ERBAJADA RUSA"

15-30-12

EMBAJADA CROCA

[10-29-69

MOVIMISNTO LIBBRACION MACIONAL 99

14-13-26

EMBAJADA CUBANA

11-43-53

EMBAJADA POLACA

14-95-45

EMBAJADA POLACA

(10-27-24 II9 YA" ORTEGA ARTAS799

71n0

trens

---

