# 104-10307-10032

## Page 1

1704-10307-10032

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

WHEN FILLED !!..

1. 6J

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on

back. Detach back lap

and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records.

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

shown are not proper

insert

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

BID/AT = 6

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

-

• TO

FE/UNCr

RoOM

DATE

RECEIVED

•FORWARDED

05-3/565,326

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2003

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

VIETNAM

610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITION:

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

:200-9-42

OCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

FVS

12 Nor 163

SEGRET

09840

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

REPORT rO.

REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

SAIGON

REPORTING OFFICER

URSULA I. GREGSAMER

REPORTS OFFICER

RUTH S. DEICHSTETTER

APPROVING OFFICER

ACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTE

CONFIDENTiAL

DATE OF REPORT

RD. NO:

PROJ.

B'CE CR.

FVS- 9840

12 NOVEMBER 1963.

UNION

1. DISSEM 1 TD.

AN OFFICIAL FRENCH SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS RELIABLE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT-

THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC SEN

OF VIETNAM PROBABLY WAS MAKING THE ARRANGEMENTS DESCRIBED-

ALSO SEE FIELD COMMENT.

3. PARI 1267. /UNION REPORT DATED 24 OCTOBER/

4. N? INDEX

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

EXTRA-AGENCY

BY TAPE

BY POUCH

I-STATE

8-USMACV

3- HQS

15-STATION

1-ARMY

2- MAAG

2-HULA

1-NHA TRANG

1 - NAVY

1 - USOM

1- CAN THO

1-AIR

1- USOM/PSD

1-HUE

2-9TH FLD. STA. 1-USIS

1- DA NANG

4= 2ND AIR DIV

COUNTRY

1-MY THO

NO. OF ENCLOSURES

NORTH VIETNAM/CUBA

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

O PASSAGE REQUESTED FOR 35

NORTH VIETNAMESE TO FLY TO CUBA

GROUP 1

Excluded fram automatie

darcarating and

NO. PAGES

PADA

APPR

CONFIDENIIAL

FoRM

1467 UREVIOUS

EDITION.

VIETNAM. SAIGON /30 OGTOBER 1963/

24 OCTOBER 1963

(20)

200-9-12

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1. BY 24 OCTOBER 1963 THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM /DRV/

MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD ASKED THE DRV

EMBASSY IN PRAGUE TO RESERVE AIR PASSAGE TO CUBA FOR 35 PERSONS

14HOMERE TO LEAVE DIREGTLY FOR HAVANA:FRON PRAGUE OR MOSCOW ON...

11 NOVEMBER. /FIELD COMMENT. AFTER THE APPOINTMENT IN JULY ~1963.

OF NGUYEN VAN HIEU, FORMER SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL FRONT

FOR THE LIBERATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM INFLSVN/ AS PERMANENT REPRE-

SENTATIVE TO CUBA, HANOI RADIO ANNOUNCEO THAT ON 27 SEPTEMBER A

"'COMMITTEE FOR SOLIDARITY WITH THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM'' HAD

BEEN FORMED IN CUBA.

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT EITHER THE NFLSVN

No 2077

200 742

---

## Page 4

13-00000

2

OR THE DRY TRADE UNION DELEGATION PRESENTLY IN MOSCOW FOR THE

TRADE UNION CONGRESS MIGHT LATER VISIT CUBA.

2C:0-9-42

---

