# 104-10161-10510

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10161-10510

02/041

ÄDV FR 18457

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1K15

SECRET

FRP : .2...

PRECEDENCE

STAFF

ACTION: FA- 4 (944)

INFO: ODPD-D, VR,

FILE, DDO-4, C/PCS, CI-4,

EPS/EG-2, LUC/ID,

DG/DMS,

PCS/PGL,

SECUR-3,

(23/1)

78 1318615

PAGE 001

TOR: 2518352 SEP 78

IN 151061:

-8 SFFR)23401

SECR

251800Z SEPT 78 STAFF

CITE (FRISAN FRANCISCO 23408 (MADENSKY ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

NNINTEL ISOLOG SECUR

* REF: DIRECTOR 296966

1.

WALTER C. BADENDICK (CO) ARRIVED MONTEREY CIRCA

'- 1900 HRS ON 23 SEPTEMBER 78 FOR OPS MEETING WITH WUCLASSIC/88

(0/88).

WEEKEND

AGENDA WAS TO INCLUDE SOCIAL INTRODUCTION OF

CO TO TWO OR THREE NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL (NPS) TARGETS.

, OSTENSIBLY AS C/BB'S NEPHEW IN COMMERCIAL ALIAS. 2 WHEN C/88

DID NOT ANSWER DORBELLO CO OBSERVED THROUGH WINDOW THAT CHAIR WAS

OVERTURNED AND BODY ON FLOOR, CO CONTACTED ASSISTANT APARTMENT

?. MANAGER WHO ENTERED THROUGH BALCONY AND ADMITTED CO THROUGH

DOOR.

ALTHOUGH C/88 VAS OBVIOUSLY DEAD, CO CALLED EMERGENCY

....

AMBULANCE TO BE SURE THAT ALL PRECAUTIONS WERE TAKEN TO SAVE

-

HaM.

THEY ARRIVED PROMPTLY AND, AFTER CONFIRMING THAT C/B8

WAS

DEAD, CALLED POLICE AND DEPUTY CORONER.

CO TOLD LATTER HE

WAS PERSONAL FRIEND OF C/88 AND DID NOT KNOW ANY RELATIVES BUT

¿ THAT FORT MILEY VETERAN'S HOSPITAL IN SAN FRANCISCO SHOULD HAVE.

THAT INFORMATION.

GAVE DEPUTY CORONER CO'S COMMERCIAL ALIAS AND

EMERYVILLE SAFEHOUSE PHONE NUMBER. CO NOTIFIED COB BY PHONE.

2. NUCANOPY AND NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE LIAISON AT

(NPS. WERE ADVISED MORNING 24 SEPTEMBER THROUGH BASE LIAISON

CHANNEL.

3. BELIEVE C/88'S BROTHER MAY BE REFERRING TO TIME WHEN,

AS ARMY OFFICER IN PHILIPPINES, C/88 SERVED IN SOME LIAISON

CAPACITY WITH RTACTION REGARDING ANTI-HUK OPERATIONS.

4.

SECURITY: C/88 WAS CAUTIONED MOST RECENTLY IN JUNE 78

NOT TO RETAIN ANY WRITTEN MATERIALS CONCERNING RIACTION OPSA

OTHER THAN LIST OF CULTIVATION TARGETS AT NPS AND SUCH MATERIALS

AND CONTACT REPORTS AS HE WOULD BE TURNING OVER TO CO AT NEXT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1318615

PAGE 002

TOR: 2518352 SEP 78

IN 1318615

I |SFFR|23408

"EETING.

HE SUBSEQUENTLY REPORTED THAT HE HAD DESTROYED ALL COPIES

JF CONTACT REPORTS AND ACCOUNTINGS AND WOULD NOT KEEP ANY IN

FUTURE.

HE SHOULD, THEREFORE, HAVE HAD ON PREMISES ONLY (A)

TERRE LIST OF

DUE FOR SURNZSSTON 23 SEPTEMBER AND, (ES (B) CURRENT ACCOUNTING

MISTAKEN FOR MATERIALS DEALING WITH HOSPITALITY OR BUSINESS

ACTIVITIES.

OF COURSE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT HE RETAINED MORE THAN

HE SAID, BUT OTHER MATERIALS HE WOULD HAVE WOULD BE MORE OF

THE SAME.

FRON C/88'S RENARKS ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, HIS FAMILY

nOULD BE

FAVORABLY DISPOSED TOWARD RTACTION OR NUCANOPY. BELIEVE

THEY WOULD BE AGREEABLE TO REQUEST TO EXAMINE HIS PAPERS AND

RETRIEVE ANY DEALING WITH OFFICIAL BUSINESS.

CONSULTING LOCAL.

ETACTION SECURITY OFFICER REGARDING BEST COURSE OF ACTION.

riILL ADVISE.

5. FILE: 201-948067. EZ IMPDET.

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

..

3170

---

