# 104-10192-10269

## Page 1

1-00000

104-10192-10269

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ron

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINCY

TICio

217V

CONTRCI

COUNTRY

Cuba

REPORI NO.

SUBJECT

Status at the Anti-castro Moronent

In Cuba, Deceiber 1961

DATE CISTR.

C5 -3/505,053

39 March 1962

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RD -W-2107

DATE Of

INFO.

20 Decanbor 1962

FLACE &

Argentina, SuonOs Air39 (18 January 1752)

D'ATE ACQ.

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INIORMATION SOURCE CRADINES ARE ORPIMITE ARORAISAL UP CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A/ossictal Argontira s0rr1er 24

Appraisal of Content: 3.

1.

Anti-castro accloities 1n Cuba includo thoso or tho rationalda organizod

morerents and those of local fronts where inieponient gortilla: are grouped

1n 95a11 mito. The ponotration or the Cuban amal forces 1s Insignificant.

The natienal movesents which havo boon activo in Cuba aro tha Morlindanto de

ZecHenracion revolucionaris (ME:), totalento Innocrati Cristiano (NeC),

soninento ?ovolucionar1o 30 do Novlenher, Movintento Sevolucionar1o dol

PuBblo (190) Roses Revulucionario, and Dianctorio Rovolucionarlo

Fotixilantin (DiE).

Ethar groups with linlted organizations aro the Unidad

Revolucionarla and to 191.

(facelarso de legor da duraltano sanchez

Arango). The strongth of tho groups by provtice is as follors:

a, Southern orlonto Parvince (Santlago do Coba)

(1) MRR.

mo Mi, a lino Diaz, has menbers fros the ranko of the

¿6 of Auly Morésent ard, especialio, fror the formor mguiar Army.

Its civillan organization 1s poor,

alnost ron-aristant.

remaln Inactive, valtire, for a serious military action of a local

ur natioral character.

(2) MDC. The 'DC has an adequato cistlian onjanleation; from the

¡oring a tha sovarent Santiago do Cuba has baon one or 1t3

the military organization 1y extrenoly poor. My

of Its leaders have fone

into callo or are trytria to do so.

They remain totally inctive in hope of an imasion mich will rosolve

the situation, aral only concem themsolvos about a listuro political

I1te, at the tine sher the present goverciont talls.

(3)

30 de lorienbre, There are few nembers of the 30 do Neviendra 1n

cantiago do Cuba, ari thoy lack cortact with thair natlonal leadory.

They haro praitically no rasources.

STATE

Taeur

I STRAVI

FICELLATE COCAIN

55-4-44-1

"OFORE CONTINUED CONTROL

IX INSA

SIA

IGNS

DINHORA

QNERI

SHORT

31/075/0013 20/10т2. 217

FIONAL MINI

P5/ESD Laura: 1

LEPORT

WH/21

F154-10513

CS-3,505,953

: 185

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Li/.

eit carol.

2

c-275,03)

i!): MaT:

Mhe nor concilnator 1o trylai to sucrianico tho soresent.

These are still

спотиці

Ince astle, conditi frumo the 25 de dily lerument, but tier ram to

remiststllit coritrets.

(5) Roscati; katonio has su nonbero in this arre.

(6) DRS.

se Das has ciplotoly broion by the siraccooni upraing a liberto Muller

and by the arrest 1o Uctober of "El Flora", irrucial Co ordfisto.

at1ll bes errat prostigo in the drus, ail libery aro saty uno worlis follis 1ta

directioo..

ba Northern Ordunta Provinco

(1) MR.

To MAR 11 practicalir con cooter 1a northern Cileato Provisco,

Its tho 0006; 1100 of a toN pursunsi contacts cl Nico Dias.

(2) NOi. To ti 1s poorly organisad not losotiro.

(3) 30 do Norlaibro. It has a madlocro organization, ior mada", sal 13

Inactive.

pa) MaDe Even dafuro tha dentala of Ociobar the MRP had a VesT; wor

erganization in thia ams. Fito doses (Elcardo»), tha ciruinstno,

was artasted li the rouslup at that cloo, bot escaped an! toll egion

In tra Foulicatian Fabassy.

HLs succosgor dod tha alliary asl alvillan

personal uru rolatival espablo.

(5).

Rascate. It doos not adst in this aras.

(6) DiE. It does not exist in tho ares.

(1) HRR.

At da baginning d Aprli 1901 caballero (Inu), tho eccanilator,

in tho Isle có Ilnes. Arargy (na), who vee neused nonoailsal.= in

1ueuri, har bean fariod to seei asylua 1a farani. Tha MaTEria: 3ar

bour destrogud.

(2) Mi: The 1Di los an eriallent commlirates, Blanco (irs!, nto 13

Beaulble, discret, mith good connectias. Mo MC has a Tuy goi

•Inillan onization ant at present is curcersed abor lt aulitan

anjantzailon, for blúch tiay alroady bute acto porsonsol.

effect luul and are trying to carry out noce allitary sotios.

3) 30 do Pinterine.

The civillan argarlastion 13 relatival poud. It has

a smail bust ailustlya altitery scarce.:

(a):

Caramy 1o ractlially tho cait prorince in sales the MOP wes not

insted is too armosts of Catuber.

It has & good cirillas carlastion

as Impintanco, rust are undor la corses' of faITast

silicis os the Robel Mira Arguirides Catallero ("Estoba"), 1ts

Cuter co-adirator, took asylua 1a tha Srailllan Entassa; "Hearin",

Is replaceant, 1o vory Jour (21 julia old) bat 19 cocoilel may good.

(5) - 509.99

it has a poar orgaaliation. there are mough are, bit tidy

you masters al the Dis renais, and "bronco" and saise: Ario' fucrode,

1's directors, snu bao by ana.

Iba Israert has beas destrod.

NOPEN SCHILNICA COLTEOL

---

## Page 3

• -3.

C5-3/505,053

Las tes turinio. It 1s esitnati that no nomenis bes an affectiva

organizatio. In t1o provinco.. A lou ren li oach scresent saintain thlo

ssation of thu existenco is their organizations.

a. Matanzas Brtisce. This proninis has boon used by to sorosento as a

rocto for tia entranco and doit of inn and ullitary eçulmant; The polato

isel ero w'i5 caroful watch, anil lio porsonnol dolag wis vork has beon

sodacal to rittárg. The MAR, MDC, MRP, rod, to a losses artont, tho

30 de vorlesiro hire chullian organtrations viih littlo or no alloctltonass.

Habana Morixo. Porinotal orgardzationg practically do not exist, oinco

prorincial mot 11 absorbod by the nitional comattres al the soromento, all

of vosch ani in the Clty al labans.

The son of the fList, socond, sod even

third rant an, in alrost all cases, olther prismuero, la asylus, ar 1a estlo.

Those ubo satIre hare succnodod bochuso al the ce operation at thoes ino

althougs set sambers of the novesent, aro opposed to tha goverment.

PIer dol FlO PrOVInCo, Il 10 ostinatod that no angetiund novenanto exot

1n PInar dol RiO.

k. Hational déractaratos.

(1) MP3, Istoban", 1ts prasent co-codirator, la nosy Joue (23 Jaers old),

and lacke tho nocessary capability. Although ho 1s courageous and .::

gunarois, bo becases lost in mali detalle.

In gros chich sakos ap

the allital camitteo i inofoitiro, sinco this norront vas Largoly

Jostroyad after 17 Apr1l 1961.

(2) MDC. The MDG les dimeted by politicang, little qualistod for a clardentine

Iight saich doss not intorest then, Alberto dal Jusoo, a san dó sc:120

who soccood the fiatilatait Popin Fernandez ("Irass"), had to take noylus

In tha Argontina Embassy.

(3) 30 da Hurleabro.

Pedro Forcada ("V1Llaroal"), the prasst co-cidinator,

1s the famer secrotury zoneral si tho Podorsolon do Cocros quialcas

and has good contacts

In tho labor field. Fo krons hou to work, but

hir attachment to tonon maxos hla forgot his rosponsibilitlos froquontly.

In licrarber this novenent. was tha victim of a daruciation which

ragultal In the ernest of over 40 neubers. Too consaquances of the

darusciation aro not noun.

It was attributed by ycos to jcde jayne,

Jabass provincial financial socrutary, and by otions to un enzinoer vio

used to voris on the national commatico.

(1s)

Tos a5rest of roinol Icnzalor has loft the IP reduoed to alaout

nothing. Sational loaders hold by 0-2 aras Balzoi Conzaloz ("Antonio"),

Paratsão de Rojar ("Pablo») co-undinator al Habanes Benterla (nau)

""russe" i, ca ordinator of 'Matarras; Fory Martinos arranclaco", labor

•ocedirator; Roberto jiranaz ("Fudro»), national studant co-ordinator;

Bras 121s ErbAusY; Raianl (mes (*Ricardo"), corinator of Holzain,

sod dere podrigues ("Domg"), cuordinator aí las villas, In tho

Ecusdatin Envass5; Franilsco Leon ("Pardomo"), recoussor to foliol

DocIaies, and Mariol Castro ("YoJ0"), indor of nilitary operations,

in the argontine Elbassyi

"Agustin", national fitnaco officor, 1n tho

Paneseríau Esbas9J; Dr. Orizondo (Iu) (El Doctor", tho was la chargo

al contacts with praussional classes, in the Colostien Embaaay. A

persor inimm by uns. niettino schichro has been destinatod sor nacional

conordlastor and 1s probably the most capabla d thuse roralning.. It 13

bAlloTal that in nost casos he can regaln 25 per seit of tha sorement 's

protlitis affoctivenass:

S-E-C-R-&-T

NOF'ORN, CONTINUED CONTROL

---

## Page 4

14-00000.

26-3/3.5,853

S.. les Fillas

(1) Corralillo Front. carpitio, anl Ton-Dild aro the tro leadory van haro

bacone woll known in this isra, inarltos 19 no longer sortioned,

althouch ho still cinnates li this area, renatnine, hidden with saiso

20 poorly emad son. isntli pairad sara 1n the prorlaco as tho

ar Dovesbar 1961 1t 17s FliM That ho had been capturoi.?

(2)

North Front (Haguajor!. For sode menths there here boon groups vhich

Tary bottoon 10 nal 100 sea, the totel sos the whole sono. Tbore seems

to do onough rood to sprit 200 son. In the last meoks (ourly Docesbar

1961) thoy hero carrial out sox actiritios such as the brlot capturo

• at the toums of Monases er! Usceral Carrillo, acto Mich rosaltod la

tha arrest of a great sider of citiilans not condoctod vita too

unlalrE. Doctor Areali Dalgalo, so servoi as tha contact vita tho

insurgents and was in clane of supplles, has taken doylun to tho

EOUROTONE Fabrasy. ils sAicTal-1i-comnand, Isosne (Im), vas arrastod.

(3)

Escanbray Front.

Is three best krown loadero af this Iront aro

Covallo Remiros, Caago Pactoco, and Pancho V111a.

Moro lo no disciplloo

alonE tho groupe, ant the fruit 19 vAry disorganizod.

It 1s estimatod

that the ruber al Insurjants does not excood 300, lecidnz aras and

having Little sood, farina roputation anong the loner class 1o good

but not so inonig anti casto leaders bocaus of his notorions eririnality3

Tha contara of aupply d teal Anl multlons, such aa Placates, Saucti

Spiritus, trinidad, Santo Clara, Clanfuagos,

and Manicarague, have surferad

mary arresto. It 19 probesto that the front vill not sou bocesso of

tho lack of arganization d the cational arti Castro aurenonto in

Izz Vi11a9 Province.

priento Provinco, Sierra Laosts Front. *villas", former chial of action

al the 30 do lioniambre, rose in reballion about aid-1901 with a group or

'50 san 1n the Niquero zone, With thi eld di alfiorent soremnita organizod

un Manzanillo, tre holp or 50 sullilater sol 25 or 30 mool solilars, and

tha co-oparation of a leador as the MAP whosa nato 18 uniacao, lo succoodod

In unlting 200 son.

50 al tle In August, and Trilllar", who was anong than, was exocuted."

About 100 neu remain at presort. They have some arms bat aro inactivo.

Posetration or Military Undes de the Cubas dorrumment.

8. Nary. Among the officers andy a jen lara bean conspiring end thoso saro

soon rotiral fros activo seria and suited as adrinistrators of co-oporatives.

Tre peratration 1a more eiscutira at yoca naval posta, through which

oquipment can ontar. Cirea de litilo inportance of the Nary and tho

Ilitod panetration ilthis it, it 1s not ballared that the liary rould play

an inpartant part 1n any national antiastro rilitary operatior.

Pobel Arry.

The lack of a sarlin blin of the asti-castro lasdars rho hara

ada.contict with the afiscers a the Ricel A y has prevented pedatration of

tho Army Irom boing a algrificant part of lio antl-Castro serpeglo. It la

ostinater! that 15 par con di teso aficers on sculvá dity who sought in tbo

Elis during the suruglo arguest artista ara now opposed to the goverment,

but thoso offliora nor laci esses 17o control and vill not azala baro 1t.

Toro have beon some cases a d'flears prorilng arms and unitions, but 1t

bes sapporad only sporadliallo.

c.

Folice. Dissatisfaction a1i18 the pólico can be considorad of vinese)

sortance bocause or the prasense of militison in polico statiras and the

ssjurpt15n of police functloas by the silities.

Although sore of the lover-

rollag members al the pollio fairo do against the regiro, thair suportisors

HONORI CONTI NIO CONTROL

---

