# 104-10186-10284

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10284

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION. REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

-5

4

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Guillermo ARASTAGUIA

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/00643-64

DATE DISTR, 11 August 1984

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ony NO. PAGES 2

Do Noi Reproduce REFERENCES CSCI-3/779,803

CS-311/00115-64

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. AuguSt 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVR

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

fron the records of this Agency.

1.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals

mentioned

In the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym

department pasted operate "al Support he shierol the

Direccion General de Inteligencla (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI).

He was formerly the secretary of

Ramiro VALDES In the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

(Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA was a

follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problen

concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to

be a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI:

ARASTAGUIA

went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative

of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

2.

ARASTAGUIA was

born in 1934, 1s about five feet seven inches

1n height, has

blond hair and green eyes.

He is fat, has a

chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunkef;zad has a

rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate.

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from an official Ecuadorean

ARRASTIA, OKA

provided a list of Cuban Communists.

One Guillermo

"Rene," possibly identical with Guillerno

ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lleutenant,

5

4

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

_ CINCSO A

I&NS

Pachlad lies ands

STATE

l'OLA

ARMY

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora, fiald distribution indicated by "#f".)

INFORMATION REPORT

Tina

TEBI 2

INRORMATION REPORT

2

CI/LLA

CHARIT

ILLE CANADAL

3. JE, BRITISHLI

L HASH/BRI

LX-1631

NO PROJECT (ANNUG/!

CSCI-316/00643-464

T.=.

HI RAVE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO AIREIGN DISSEN

erecutive. in G-2.

ARRISTIA was reported to here the confidence

or Raul CASTRO and Ramir, VALDES; and he was VALIEs' righthand

nan

in G-3.

2.

An official roster listing the milltary staff personnel comprising

she Intelligence Department, G-2, of the Cuban Miaistry of the

draed Forces (MINFAR) tas recelved by a represestative of this

Agency from an untested source in a report dated l Harch 1961.

Included on this list nes one First Lleutenant Guillermo

ARRASTIA Fundora, possibly Identical With Guillerzo ARRASTAGULA.

3.

In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of ideatifled and

suspected Cuban intelligence officers was included, the list was

received from an official liaison servicol

One First |l

Eleutenant Guillerso ARRATIA (or ARRASTIA) Fundora vas included :

on the list and described as an identified intelligence officer

on the G? Headquarters staff.

SECR

FOREIGS

E

DISSEM

VIBR

---

