# 104-10095-10044

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10095-10044

OMF

CLASSIFICATION

$ r

MESSA

STAFF

CONF:

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VUIGUINU MIEDOHUE

SIGNAL CENTER

col

=ON'

TOG

TRE

MRO

0

0

ING INDICATOR

DATE-TIME GROUP

-

- DIRECTEN 950609

sent

Capie:

irrelle.

PAGE

OF

13807/207

32 Прі 76.

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

0

INDEX

NO INDEX

DISSEM BY:

D

PER

1P FILES

#

TO:

PRIORITY MEXICO CITY. "

RYBAT PLYSCADET Y

REF: DIRECTOR 950056 Y

I• HOS WAS UNAWARE UNTIL Z8 NOVENDER THAT LOUSE SELECT

•COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS WENT TO NEXICO CITY ON 27 MOVERGER TO

INTERVIEW A FORMER AGENCY TRANSLATOR SPOSSIOLY MR. BORIS TARASURE

WHO MOU RESIDES IN GUADALAJARAJ AND AT UNIDENTIFIED FORMER ACCACY

¡TYPIST WHO ALLEGEDLY PREPARED A TRANSCRIPT OF A TELLOONE CALL MADE

IN LATE SEPTENDER 103 9Y LEE HARVEY OSWALD TO THE SOVIET ENDASSY IN

MEXICO CITY. THE TRANSCRIPT OF THIS CALLO ACCORDING TO MR. CORALA

KESSLER IN HIS 27 NOVENGER "WASHINGTON POST ARTICLE, ALLEGEILY

CONTAINED AN OFFER BY OSUALD OF UNDEFINED INFORMATION IN RETUNE FON

A FRÉE TRIP TO TiE USSR. "

2- SHOULD HOBSE SELECT COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS CONTACT THE

HISTATION YOU SHOULD BE AWARE THAT NO STAFF HENDER OF THE CONNETTLE

3HAS YET RECEIVED A SECURITY CLEARANCE. STATION SHOULD THEROFORE,

2NOT DISCUSS WITH INVESTIGATORS ANY CLASSIFIED INFORMATION RECALLING

L'OSUALI'S ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO CITY DETWEEN ET SEPICANO AND SOCODILA

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATIO

FORM

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

---

## Page 2

4-00000

OUTGOING

"MESSAGE'

AGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

coI

TOG

TrE

MRO

:0,MF

0

: 0

Leasureston

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

DATE- TIME GROUP

--

CONF:

INFO: FILE

=0

DCI

0

CITE

DERECTOR

PAGE

PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO PER

DISSEM BY:

1P FILES

19GS. ANY QUESTIONS TOUCHINS Di CLASSIFIED ENFORMATION SHOULD

REFERRED TO NAS. Y

J. IN LIGHT OF DEVELOPING HOUSE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATIONS! WOULD

APPRECIATE REPORT OF MUY REPEAT ANY PAPERS AHD DOCUMENTS RELATING TO

THE OSWALD 1,963 VISIT TO BREMEXICO CITY AND FOLLOWING INVESTIGATIONS

THAT ARE STILL HELD IN THE STATION. IF ANY PLEASE DESCRIBE SO!

DECISION CAN BE MADE CONCERNING FORWARDING TO HAS. W

4. SOME CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN ET HOS TO MAKE FULL PUBLIS

DISCLOSURE OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO LEC INUEY OJUALD ACTIVITIES

DURING ILS TRIP TO MEXICO CITY CUNICH IN PAAT MGUITORED BY TELEAP

AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEILLANCES, AS GELL AS RELATED DEVELOPHENTS.

SUCH-PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WOULD OSVIOUSLY REVEAL LIAISON RELATIONSHIP,

[LOINT OPS) AND AGENT TRUE NANES INCLUDING POSSIBLE IDENTITY LESSEE OF

HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE.

PLEASE PROVIDE US WITH YOUR

'CONSIDERED VIEU OF REACTION OF LINISON AND MEXICAN GOVERMHENT ANE

3 POLITICAL AND OPERATIONAL COUDOTATIONS AND IMPLICATIONS IF A FOLL

2 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WAS MADE- Y

S. NO FILE. E2 INFDET-N

DATE: 30 NOV 197103

COORD: IG: SCOTT BALCHINRIEGE FIN DRATA

ORIG:

JOHN BECKUITMERAS. BRECKINRIDGE

CI/OG: RUSS HOLICS A JU DRAFT /

UNIT:

ACILA/MACAN

IG STAFF

OS/SAG: RAY REASON

•EXT: 1354

1407

SA/D/O: PHILLO F. FENDIS

RAYHOND A. WARREN C/LAD

HELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECR

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Lour u1.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

T

03

ITHENTICATINO OFFICE

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:2111!

SMIS

---

