# 104-10336-10002

## Page 1

1104-10336-10002

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SINA

TION

work copy

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530....

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

"'EN

••*

October 27,1996

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Mr. Barry Harrelson

' Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for

Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the

CIA.

Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by

November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board

staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CLA's compilation of the portion

of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim. Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall - William I Joyce - AnnaK Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that

CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available

and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two

weeks. Nothing has been made available:

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,

no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board

staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide

within two weeks. was Oswald

on)

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran's original

statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

reVIew board Staff research continues. When research is complete, staff Wil

LISCUSS ISSUes with Cl

files firm collection pulled /warte

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). - Copy seut

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review •

Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues

its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the

subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been

located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been

unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,

or MR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us

whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding

Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape

as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.

Thank you for your help and cooperation.

Sincerely

T. Jergmy Gunn

General Counsel and Associate Director for Research

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IR-03

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA(15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL :

per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was

destroyed in response to court order; however, documents

may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /

and

Privacy requests

and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

Per on could? Don, sons a de vay to locate tast

me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

Meetag of Gunn -8/29/96

* will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request pendu, buefing a HELENient

& odefiles

.....

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CIA-15 (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL.. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that.

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

'activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that.

you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

runn interests

*bitin-t on project.

* intercepted ileusenty or cover for operation

* Internatinil Rescue Committée

---

## Page 6

13-00000

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATE RESOLUTION 21

HEARINGS

BATORS T3O

SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

VIRNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

OF TEDI

UNITED STATES SENATE

NINETY-FOURTE CONGRESS

FIRST SASSION

VOLUME 4

MAIL OPENING

OCTOBER 21, 22, AND 24, 1975

ted for the use of the Select Commolttee To Stadt Governmental

Operatlons With Respect to Intelligence Actividles

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

. WASHINGION: 1978

For Belo by the Superlatendent of Document, UB. Goverarunnt Prlming Osca

Washingtaa, D.C. 20102- Prloe 8Z10

---

## Page 7

13-00000

INTAL OPERATIONS

CIVITIES

B. J0., Teanesdee

ER, Arizona

•THIdS. J8.. Maryland

(EEB, Pritoss Irabla

ret

SEV

CONTENTS

HEARING DAYS

October 21,

1975_.

Hednesday,

October 22, 1975

Friday, Detober 24, 1975..

LIST OF WITNES8ES

•TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1975

axessert, Gordon, former Inpector General, Centrul Intelligence Agency,

accompanied by Stanley Gaines, counsel----Tapector

Abernathy,

Thoms, former stall

pector General's nim,

Hennon, John, former staff member,

Can John, Tone A stay meaner, spector her a ovia, countel

Intelligence Agency..

Howard

former

agency, accompanied by Jukh Debelies, counrel.:.

er Director of Security, Central Intelligence

WEDNESDIY, OCTOBER 22, 1975

Edward J., former Postaziter General, accompanied by James F.

conniel. -

Prey Sound, Corner Fortister General, acenmpanied by Dougla

Blount, Wintoo

"drant counsel-----

Jally, James,

Sr., counsel for J. Edward Day.

Contague,

Henry, former Chiet Inspectos, Postal Inspection Service.

William, forner Chief lospector,

Etes; Richurd, Forbar Cale to Pect on corner Director, Crite Intel

-Ugence Agency.

PoRe

41

119

3

3

3

25

42

42

42

68

70

70

83

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1975

robell, Jobo, former Attomey General, socompanied by William G.

madley, coungel. -

Arnall,

Raymond, Anistant Director, Intelligence Dividion, Federal

yea, Wintert Saction Chief of Counterlatelligence, Federal Burea

Investigation.

pare, Donald E., former FBI Iorpector-

miz,. John

Aariatent Dirictor, Legal Counsel Division, Federal

Bareau of Invescigation......

119

14?

147

147

147

HEARINGS EXHIBITS'

I November 21

opera gneral unto radio i of e or perations i

Ahr Project HTLINGJAL.

175

187

tra the gate re protect WLa detecon to Director of

195

June 3, 1971 memorandum for the record re meeting at DCI's

ofice conceming HTLINGUAL-

197

et cateria deterantand oy too

commister, In

consultation vich cho Central lotel.

Bureau

of

Iovestigadloo,

cErtain

materlale

have

been

thesa documento.

ome of walch were prevlously rassheo, to

maintals the

DIOCEdUrGA

tue toterDal, operalis urther deleciond mere

he ascucte

of certaio

wade

lovolved, and to

protect

with rexpect to protecting

Indivlunale and groupa Those delecion do not change toe macetlal

chose exbibles

(ITI)

---

## Page 8

13-00000

IV

No. 5-Augurt 30, 1921 mcmorandum to Deputy Chiel, Counterinte-

ligence re HTLINGUAL Correspondence of members of the

U.S. Govemment-

December 22, 1971 memorandum for the record re handilag or

items to and from

To. B- Chart prepared by Senate Sele appointed U.6, officials.

Committee, showing potificatior

of Posinanted Cental one one ten on To macer re

No. 7-April 23, 1960

memorandum for the filer from

discussion with Assistant Deputy Director for plans conceming

ITLINGUAI

operation

and

congressionn

subcommittee

hearings concerning tampering with the mail..

No. 8- Februery 18, 1961 memorandum from Richard Helms to Deputy

Chicl, Counterintelligence re HTLINGTAL

No. 2-May 19, 197, memorandum for the record re DOls Meeting

Concerning HITLINGUAL-

No. 10-February 10, 1961 memorandum from Richurd Heims to Deputy

Chief, Counterintelllgence re HTLIN GUAL --

No. Il-Excarpts from June 1970 Special Report of the Interagendy Com

mittec on Intelligence (Ad Hoe) (che Huston plan).

Couaterin-

No. 14- Jwy 28, 1970 memorandum for the record froze Bichard. Hems

re

Discussion

with

Attorney General Mitchall on Domesuc

Intelligence-

No. 15 September 18, 1970 memorandum from John Dean to the Attorney

General-..

No. 18- March ii, 1960 memorandum from SAC, San Francisco to FBi

Headquarters re Confidential Bource..

No. 17-December o, 1973 SAC memorandum 58-73.

No. 18-October 2, 1984 memorandum from D. E. Muore to W. C. Sullivan

No. 19 february

• 1965 memorandum from A. I. Belmont to Clyde

Tolson re the Long Committce-.

No. 20 March 2, 1963 memorandum from J. Edger Hoover to M

Colon, Belmony Gale,

No. 21-February

20,

1075 memorandum

Aspects of MESOURDOUGH, SAn Francisco, Calif

No. 22-March 10, 1961 mcmorandum from D. E. Moore to A. F. Belmont

re Project Hunter, Espionage R

No. 23-August 24, 1966 from M. E. Triplets to W. A. Branigan

No. 24 May 23, 1965 Airtel from SAC, San Francisco to FBI Head.

quaruers.--

No. 25 May 24,

1975 Decision in

in Lamoni V. Postmaster General of the

United Stales

No. 28- January 18, 1966 memorandum from FBI Hendquarters to SAC,

San Francisco re Confidential Source-

No. 27-May 17, 1954 memorandum to Director of Security from Richard

Helmy re SRPOINTER.-------

APPENDIX

October 24, 1975 letter from J. Edward Day to the Senate Select Com-

mitree...-

Page

199

200

202

203

205

206

210

211

218

222

224

225

328

232

233

295

238

241

244

245

249

260

256

25T

259

INTE

SELECT COMr!

The commi

Russell Sena

presiding.

Present: S

•Colorado, Go

•'Also prese:

•Schwarz, Jr..

ПІЛОгІ

The CHAu

Today, and

quiry into the

Fing the mail,

fundamentall

laws of the la

-details of the

plan.

• One provis

mail opening

"already busily

had been doin

... We are less

grams than w

take root and

How did this

House, the Ji

What reviews

in these ingtiti

"Though ma.

is most are th.

iberties. The.

through whic

function:

As & case s

the inner life

with whick t

their mail pro

cism of it

fTI

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

To:

Barry Harelson

AL COLZECTIONS

DARE IN FULL

2000

From:-

T. Jeremy Gunn

Subject me a Requests to CIA for Rel

cords Related Information- UPDATE

Date:

January 9. 1997

Tina di

003) 616-416

The followings alist of our current requests for information. These should be

consideredanto

for which wenwait your response. If you have any

adattional

ses, youshould call elther Bob Skwirot or the analysts

is toto malveany of the requests into our numbered

SO

prefer.

partial

response

10/96

pending

9/6/86

pending

9/6/96

partial

response

10/96

pending

complete

10/96

pending

pending.

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

9/6/96

9/96

9/96

10/17/96

10/24/96

10/24/96

11/06/96

12/10/96

12/10/96

01/07/97

Are all fles in collection?. Il CIA has any

edditional fies (e.g. personnel, 201, etc:), we would like to

request them.

Failin fie In Box 15 tolder 34. Who Is the person

signing the DCD messages?: Did Raikin work for CIA? Did

he work for DCD/OO?, What is relationship between

documents in fle and Raikin?

Location of cable identified in JFK

1993.07 20.10.18:29650630 (Box 34, F22) p. 2 Cable

number (IN 24738)7 July 62. We can send fax if helpful.

Manit Muratales. Are all files in collection? If ClA

has any additional files (e.g. personnel, 201, etc:), we

would like to request them.

Information on HTLINGUAL

Information on Angleton's filing system at Cl

Location of DRE, CRC, MRR(?) monthly operational

repors

Tapes

Moscow

Tapes of Alvarado Interrogation

New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT

and ZRCLIFF

Claude Barnes Capehart

Howard Guebler

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Combs

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Marr

Combs

Marr

Legaspi

Skwirot

Gunn

---

## Page 10

13-00000

...

re cIA IR-03

NATION

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**) and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

•'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material;

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CLA-IR-03

HILINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 " A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 11

13-00000

"".

... de

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided

below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CLA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in

April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the

record.

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to

account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that

related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived

controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board

believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he

maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to

explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have pertained to

the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided

by the CIC and the case files for Mangold o. CLA. The Review Board requests any

additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the

disposition of Angleton's files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated

additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents

are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied

---

## Page 12

13-00000

HILINGUAL

Working Note - HRG Internal Use Only

Michelle,

Attached is a partial DO response to the HTLINGUAL (CIA IR

The DO continues to search files that have

HTLINGUAL references and for information on destruction of

DO HTLINGUAL records.

The destruction of HTLINGUAL Files is

also addressed by the Office of Security in Request CIA #16.

Barry

---

## Page 13

13-00,000

CONFIDENTIAL

20T/N98

20 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

(V)

(U)

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

(U)

(U)

Chief, JFK Declassification

Project/HRP/OIM/DA

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, External Support Group/IMS/ DO

Central Intelligence Agency

DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #03

ARRB's Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,

RE: Status of CIA Responses to

Assassination Records Review Board's

Requests for Additional Information and

Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal request

number 03 (CIA IR #03) from the Assassination Records Review Board

(ARRB) •

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File

(C) First, as an outcome of the Pike and Church Committees, all

HTLINGUAL files

were destroyed. Copies that may have been made and put

into individual's files surface as the files are reviewed. The DO ran a

search on the term "HTLINGUAL." Some records were identified as

destroyed. Some were not

so marked but are not locatable under the job

number identified; however, given that there is no requirement to record

destroyed records

under the federal statutes for disposition programs

and given limited resources

for noting files destroyed, this is not

uncommon. The HTLINGUAL search further identified files because of

Freedom of Information Act queries; however, these were not HTLINGUAL

files per se, but files which contained the FOIA requester queries for

HTLINGUAL information.

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

CL BY: 2103140/

CL REASON 1.5 (c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV From: COL 19-87

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 14

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and

HTLINGUAL security support files and indexes held by the

Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the

guidelines set forth in the approved Records Control

Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General

Counsel.

see CIA-Ile"

---

## Page 15

13-00000

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA-15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was

destroyed in response to court

order; however, documents

may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /

and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie,

two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

Per (Bob Coudle) (?), OGC, search is under way to locate OGC

file on HTLINGUAL (Irene Johnson has action) -- will contact

me when located; agreed that

briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

лерог

meetay of Gunn -8/29/96

* will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request pendin; bali

dosaliles.

see-folder in quey box

---

## Page 16

13-00000

§ (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL.. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you may be uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

Gunn in levest=

*interceplectilenson. in cover for operation

* Internatin il Rescue Dren, tee

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Facsimile Cover Sheet

To: Barry Harrelson

Company: HRG

Phone: (302927

Fax:

703-243-8343

From: Linda C. Cipriani)

Company:

OGC/LD™

Phone: 76124

Fax: 703-874-3124

Date: 09/05/96

Pages including this

cover page: 7

Comments: All OGC has is li following destruction authorization. I am told that it you

need the actual destruction record, you will need to go to the DO.

LInda

r.d:r

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Ossaral Bernsel

88-05351

SUMII URIGINAL ANU A LUPIES TO IRMU

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

TO RETAIN OR DESTROY GIESTIONABLE RECORDS

TO , Chial, Information Resourca: Management Division, Ois

THRU: Cumponeril Rocurds Mungenant Olficer

Dircitorale Records Manüuemeul Offici

Information Management Bronch, IRMD/OIS

Office of General Counsel

1. DESTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONND.f/reigned by IRM0/OIS)

FROM. (OFFICE DESICILTIONO ORIGINATONNY

DDO/TMS/MPG/TRMB

DATE PREPARED

•14 December 1989

THE RECORDS IDENTICICO DELOVE ARE SCHEDULLO FOR IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION; HOWEVER, THEY MAY DE SUBJECT TO ACIUAL OR IMPENDINO LEGAL OR

INVESTIGATIYE REQUIREMENTS, AUTHORIZATION IS REQUESTEO EMER TO KETAIN IME KELUKUS UN IU UESIKUT INEM AS SCHEDULLU. IHE MELUKUS ANE

BEING HELD FENDING RECEIPT OF AUTHORITATION. IF FURTHE RETENTION IS REDUIRED, REVISFO OISPOSITION INSTRUICTIONS MEISY RE PErSVINEA TO

INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

IDENTIFICATION OF RECORDS

4. SCHEDULE NO.

DDO / IMS/OSG

40-76

201C02

1954 - 1973

Sco

ALL 1

8, PROVIDE DETAILED DE ECRIATIONI ARIO UGTING GS IIIC ORDE LID/OP ATPAGI COMY OR CORN INO, NOSA, LE 40314" MARXED TO INDICATE VINIEM RECORDS ARE QUEJIIABLE.

EAMLAIN DASIO FUX ULIERMINING: INAI XECUUS AKE QUESIIONAELE

PROJECT HILINGUAL

Project HTLINGUAL was

rosponsible for copying letters intercopted in the

U.S. Mail guing lu ind from the USSR.

The HILINGUAL Project was declared unlawfui by the kochetollex Commission

and the Church Committec.

In accordance with their findings and with

anthoricalion of the archivise of the United States and the Senate Commite

on Intelligence, the MILINGUAL rocords are to be destroyed as soon as poi

ATtached for reference (Attachment ?) is the authorization to destroy

thase tocords by the National Archivist

(17 March 1978)

with the concurronce

of the Senate Select Comnittee on Intelligence (6 April 1972) CONTINUED ONSEPARATEPACE

•TOLEO TURE CUSTODIAN ON ECONO

ENTERTION TORTE

C.JOSG

2-3596

TO TV SO FATAD AND SIONATURE OF COMPENEN RECENTE

свартічни

V.

EXTENSION

ADO/ INO

2-6033

-DIXELIOKAIL KECOKUS MABALEMENI OTTILEK

Getter i. Hodg

f./DD/TMO

KAIENSICIN

DAIT

2-7295

1%/20/17

AUTISORIZATION TO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS

12, TIFCO MAME AND SICINAIUKE UN GENERAL CUUNGE REPRESENTATIVE

IXIENSIUN

VAlt

DESTROY ALL

15. TRECO MAME AINE SONATURE OF CHIEF, INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENI DIVISION, O

APPROVED

OATE-

18. 'PROVUE JUDIRKAION FOR CUNINUE I REIENION ALSO PADVIE PROPOSEO NEW DISPOSI:ION INS IRUCTIONS.

'INDICATS UNDIO SECTION BABOVEWHICH DECORDS ARS TO 86 PETUNEO, THOSE NOY MIDICATED FOR RETEMMOTIARE AUTHORILEO FOR IMMEDUITE DESTRUCTIONI

I CONTINUEDON SFPARATE PARE

(1824).

14141e

d.NJ

---

## Page 19

13-00000

-

HTLINGUAL INVENtORY

Single xerox copy of opened letter rapproximately 215,8202.

349

fu. Ft

?.

Single microfilm copy of indexed postal covers (y22 tilm

cassettes).

8.5 Cu. Ft.

3.

single microtiim copy of indexed and unindexed postal covers -

~ 10mm reels: 108 - 35mm Films cart-

ridges: and 12 envelopes of film strips).

13 CH. FT.

Subjeel files maintalan and used by the HILINGUAl analysts on

Individuals and organizations (Job number 80-417).

25 Cu. Ft.

HILINGUAL index consistina of six (o) reels or magnetic tape

and 37 - 16mn Film cassettes.

• Cu. Ft.

Administralve, backgound and reference files concerning the

HILINGUAL Project.

1.5 Cu. Ft.

7.

Miscellaneous HTLINGUAL material - ten (10) parks undeveloped

TOTAL:

•5 Cu. rt.

398.5 Cu. Ft.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

PAGEESI HUN NECOND!

AISHOSITION AUTIIONITY

(See Instruclions on reverse)

iron Nis

•NCI

DATE MFIFIVEU

AGENCY COPY

100. 014118

? 63

18

2 2 AUG 1977

NASIFICATION TO AGENCY

GENTHAL SHOVICES ADMINISTRATIOIL.

MATIONIL ARCHIVES AND REGARAS SERVICE. MASHINGION, DO 20900

MAsOn JUDOmirOre

CeDETal luLelligence AgenDL

Operations Ditcetorate

D. AXIP.OR SUADIVISION

.. MALE DE DERSAN WITM WKON TO CONFER

S. TEL. EXT.

George. Frates

351-7716

3-11-78 famillene

6. CEMMEICATE DE ACENCY MEPRESENTATIVE:

1 hereby cerily that l am authorized du fel fur this agency in malters pertaining to the disposal of the agency's recordis:

Chal the records proposed lar desposal ionõis Request of __ (agels) are not now needed for the business ol

Mis agency or will nut he needed attér the retention periods specilied.

G A Requesi for immediate disposal.

B Request for disposal aljer a specilied period of time or request ior permanent

C. UAIt

G. TITLE

1. DESCRIPTION OF ITCH

With Inclerina Oalde ne Retention Per Dosi

AssariaLe. Records kanagemeat Officer

SAMPLE OR ACTION"'TAKEN

KIRi NO.

=..

The tile contains copies of 215,820 letreirs and

pholuyraplis of 2,705,726 corcis (chvelopes) of unopened

letters which were interrepted dusing mailing to and from

addresses in the U.S.S.R. and related indexes.

The andresses

were intelligence laigets duriug the period of 1954 to 19%5.

Many of the originators and rucipients of the nuil to and

fram the targer, addresses were United States citizens.

Not incluled in this roquest for disposai are thöse

copics of letters and photographs ul covers which are at

Che presant time the obiccts of tresdom uf Infomatic Ai.1

roquests and Privacy Atr. requeils, ur those that are

involved in litigation. Similarly files which documuit

he initiation, implemmitation.

and cermination of this

mail intercept projoct (those that may have: historical

value) will be reticuld in the CLA and be maintained in

Continuci maintenance of the files cavered by chi:

dispes: request conflicts with the provisions of the

Privacy Act,

5 U.S.C. 5523 (9) (1) and (7) os rcll a

ectiün 5 (0) (1) of Excoutive Ordor:11905

188-1501

er menareslian

elean per CrA, 101 100

---

## Page 21

13-00000

¡equest lor Recurus Disuusition Authorily -Continuation

00 но.

Mera enclose Dades01Delarlion Pre.001

Attaches for your review and approval is a Standard

Fom 115 requesting auchority trom the Archivist of the

United States fur the innediale disposal uf the Mail

Intercept File.

FYI:

Arony of the SF-I15 will be sent to the

Senate Select Commitice on Intelligençe.

APPROVAYS:

CAGE DO

sandie Gi

JOP NO

- Wells

WitTam W. Wells

Deputy Director for Opcrations

80172.

8/15/17

Date

Mark I

Paterson

Chief, Informazion Systems Analysis Staff

CUNCURRENCES:

Н. 23.92?

Office o

"Williin."

4. Downe

Mou, 24,

WyLliam F. Connelly

Chicf,

Information Scrvices Staff, DDU

Molt.

George L. Cary, Jr.

Legislative Counssl

• No Agency records are lo bi destroyed without the

concurrence ol the Senate Select Committee. This is a

saparate process from abraining NARS approval. sub-

mission uí these losins to NARS is fully cunsistent will

the Agency's obligation to the SSCI.

This page will nor be made available on the National

Archives and Rocords Service or the Senute Select

Commirree em Intelligence.

-tas coolas, including origina: Taba audindar lu ina Nablunds arshico,

a.....

SIANUANU FUNN PIS-A

Mersed duly 1930

reescribed or Gended Senacet

POND 101 CPR, 101-18.4

---

## Page 22

13-00000

10/18

Tire dronin

APPRAISAL REPORT ON DIS-OSITION OF RECORDS

SeguLales De l972

1 N61-263-91-18

SECTION I-ANCHOYED-ONCESOSAL

MALU1 1834-89900-09ES IN MISIOMIGEL ONE MIND DES NE DANCISONA LEXCUNIADIO. ON DON ORDE DIGGE GO DODIVERINRS

te the bload dea to do in dormer des need

IT'EM T.

LINIRL, ASCOUNIING DEFICE CONCURRENGE

¿ SEE COMMENS OR ATTROLO LETTER.

a/a

SECTION N- APPROVCO COR PERHALENT ROTENLION

HIENIES

THAT

1E (NIE AIROVED FOR FERMANENT RETCHTION.

FOR

RELSONG INDICATED IN SECTIO

OFFER THESF AFCORDS IN IME NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDE SERVICE

AS SPICIFILD IN DIE

SCGEDSEEY"

-SECTIONIN- APPROYÇO FOR DISPOSAL ALTEE CONVERSION TO MICROFORL

DISCÜSHOLE DECLUSE THE

RETAINEO MICROFORE IS AN HOEGUIN

108.18.300.

SECTIONIY - DISCOSAL NOT APPROVED

•TIMISS THAT 1S LARES NOT APPROVEO FOR DISPUSAL AY INTO IIAIT..

TSEFIGIEST INFOSILATION 1S AVAILADLE TO OCTERMINE TIE VALUE OF IMESE RECOROS FOR AGENCE AND LACHINEL PURPOSES.

IN AGENCY DIS RANEL THIS TOMASH DIRDESS SEN

NUI MESVEMITTED WITHIN SIX LOUIS MERS HILL CONTACT THE AGENCY.

ITE ISI THAI MRS INAVED MEN WIPENDAN AT THE DEQUEST OF THE ICENCY.

SIGiATURE OF APPRAISER,

APPROVAL

1620 6.

ECTION VI APPROVAT/CONCURRENCE

BY DIRECTOR.

RECODOS DISPOSITION DIVISION

Клеавкам)

coN.

CURRENCES

DETE

3/03/77

DATE

19/2519%

52/25 (

DatE

VAlE

SECTION VII - APPRAISEN'S RELUNMENUATIUN

COMENTS:

---

## Page 23

13-00000

000 0, Кавь. т.8.

28-51951

-00m900200.00.8

00002 D. D.8186

ma200, tro,

ven" eleca

• DuneGton

United Biates Henate

SELCEY CUMMITTEC ON INTEILIGENCE

savaguan 495-060-20-055 0ees)

WASH: GTON. O.G. 20510

April 6. 1978

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER IO Q# .:!

L: E55

Admiral Stansfield Iurner

Director of Central Intelligence

Central Incelligence Agency

Washington, D.

20505

Dear Admiral Iurner:

This Coumittee has no objeccion to the implementation

of che records disposal list (job #NC1-263-77-18) approved

by che Archivist on March 17, 1978.

sincerely,

Birch Bagh

Birch Bayh

Chairman

.....

---

## Page 24

13-00000

SEP. 1.1998

3:58PM.

A

NO. 134

P. 1

Confidential

Cleastty as Approprate

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

CIA SPOILL COLZECUONS

DATE:

I September 1998

2000

SENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

703-482-1054

RECKIVING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

703-613-3060l

NUMBER OF PAGES (Including Transmittal Form and Coversheet, i applicable)

FROM.. Fred Wickham

(Name / Office / Extension)

SUBJECT:

MFR, 6 Apr 90, Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

TO: (ADDRESSEE / ORGANIZATION / OFFICE / EXTENSION)

1. Barry Harrelson OIM X31825:

2.

3.

4.

6.

7.

9.

10.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

RELEASING OFFICIAL:

Fred Wickham

(PRINTED NAME)

(SIGNATURE)

RECEIVING STATION USE ONLY

Please receipt for material by entering time of receipt/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE / TIME:

SIGNATURE:

FORM

6-97

4383A

(EF)

Classily is Appropriada

Confdentist

OL REASON:

DECL ON:

DAV FROM:

---

## Page 25

13-00000

SEP.

1.1998

3: 59PM

A

NO. 134

P.2

CONFIDENTIAI

6 April 1990

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

REFS:

B.

PARTICIPANTS:

Destruction Of MICHAOS and ITLINGUAL Project Files

DC/MPG

John

John

Coins.

Janet getsett, Ass

DO/IRO

C/RRB

ACTION:

OSGARRE:

DO/IRO: :

MPG/ IPB':

C/MPG:

IMS/IMO:

MEG/PPB :

Elleen scott.

Lou Dube. RRE

:

Identify material for destruction

Recall material

from Records Canter

c)

Review the material for.

destruction

Initiate

destruction

action by keying one

transaction per document

Respond to Refelence A, OGC Memo

16) Identity Independent electronic calas in 150

PerfOrM SOFA search to identify MicHaos and

HTLINGUAN ILIeS

Initiate a SPIN search to identify any existing

MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL InformatiOn AFTER the initial

processing of material

Document meeting and identify action points

a) Initiate action to identify electronic holdings of

MCHAOS and HILINGUAI information

Identify and monitor disposition of Michaos and

HTLINGUAL digital information

Update procedures, notices, instructions. etc.

1.

All information that established MiCHAOS and HILINGUAL

wi11 be permanent retention.

che matarial is stored in different

places.

It was agreed

tO IUn a SPIN seaICh AFTEI

the material

CONFIDENTIAL

...0

---

## Page 26

13-00000

S5: 111390

4: 00+M

H

NO.134

P.3

COHFTADIHETAL

was destroyed at Records Center to ensure identification of all

and HTLINGUAL

materials.

the SPIN

any MHCHAOS and

HITINGUAL material Will be turned over to RRE for

is done.

fOllow up review.

MHCHAOS

Accordinin ISG.

to the IMS/IMO.

five platter diskpacks on

ROOM GB0704 OHB.

C/MPG noted

that we

need to

research electronic holdings of ISG, both HTLINGUAL and

MICHAOS •

Destruction

transactions will be

entered in

the system

suggested that, the

transactions be done

would be less risky than a blanket delation.

The XXI SymbOl lOI MHCHAOS WAS USAd lOI naMe traCe

PurpOses.

According

to the IMS/IMO,

79 cubic feet of

201 f1les

are in this category.

OffiGLal 201

two MicHaos Jobs that haye not been processed identifles 201

should have blank File Content Lists.

files

that

are

reconstitute the file.

ind aid the documents are in AutoTar, RRe must

destroyed and Xxy

should be updated.

and Xxz should be deactivated.

Order of destruction

HILINGUAL PIOduCtiOn

HTLINQUAL materlal can be started on immediatellie

are 1 112 cubic feet which will

pulled

first.

The bulk of HILINGUAL material - 348 cubic feet

can be

destroyed immediately without review.

The remaining 50°

gre in

five

or six categories and needs to

be reviewed. 8.g..

single microflim copies stored in conserva tilas.

IRMB Will tuIn OvaX the MHCHAOS file Inventory to

When material

searched, RRE will notify IPB

w1.l1 seaIch SOFA to identify ellas.

8.

Pursuant to RefaIence A OGC memorandum, the DO/IRO"

should formally

comply with

OGC's

request to determine

is there

any outstanding FOIA oI PIIvaCy Act requests relating to

MICHAOS OI HILINGUAL that should not be destroyed.

COXPSDEWIII

---

## Page 27

13-00000

1.1998

4:01PM

NO. 134

P.4

24 June 1981

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROY:

SUBJECT:

Mr.

William J.

Allardi

Associate General Counsel

Louis J. Dube›

DO/Information Review Officei

DestruCtion of MCHAOS and HILINGUAL Records

1.

With

regards to the MiCHAOS records, it is my under-

standing

that a Protective Order was placed

on all NHCHAOS files

In June 1976 due to

You advised that Mark Lynch, the attorney

Then that Much tinen, to alton wy Heresenting

definition

to include onty

individuals cited in the

case

as plaintiffs.

amended to

MiCHAOS TeCOTabermit destruction at Otheree order could

Please undertake whatever action

500n

so that the DO may destroy records under

an amended protective order.

procede

In further discussion

destruction

records.

please find five copies of Form 141, each portiining

Attached

0 a separaze

phase of the HILINGUAL file system.

inclule your

-currence

the destruction of these files by signing in block 12

on

a.11

Attachment;

a/5

WARNING NOTICE

Intelligence

Sources

and Mathods

Involved

ADMINISTRATIVE

-, INTERNAL US

ONLY when separated from the

attachments

DERIVATIVE CL BY 01820/

REVW ON JUn

01

DERIVED FROM D9C-13

NEID

EN

TI AL

---

## Page 28

13-00000

file cy

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

CIA-IR-3, Full Computer Search for List of

Documents in HTLINGUAL File

1. This is in response to referent request.

2.

Searches were made for information responsive to

the request and materials were provided for examination by

ARRB staff.

From that examination, staff members selected

number of documents to be included

within the JFK

Collection.

Those documents have now been included within

the JFK Collection and are being processed for release to

NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please advise.

san

J. Barry Harrels

---

## Page 29

13-00000

CIA SEBOZAT COLLECTIONS

NEL RASE IN FULL

2000

MEMORANDUM

September 19, 1998

To:

Laura Denk

Executive Director

Cc:

From:

Bob Skwirot

CIA Team Leader

Michelle Combs Michelle Combs

Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-03 HTLINGUAL Records

The Review Board's Informal Request for Additional Records and Information asked

the CIA to locate any extant records from the HTLINGUAL mail cover and mail

opening project. Most of the HTLINGUAL files held by the Directorate of Operations

were destroyed in 1990 at the order of the CIA's Office of the General Counsel. A

memorandum for the record found in volume seven of Lee Harvey Oswald's Office of

Security file states that the Office of Security destroyed its SRPOINTER/HTLINGUAL

files in April 1994 in accordance with guidelines set forth in the Record's control

schedule and the Office of General Counsel.

The Review Board staff examined an index, provided by the CIA, to the remaining

HTLINGUAL records and marked folders for closer review. The Review Board staff

reviewed the HTLINGUAL project files for 1955-1990. These project files consist of

monthly statistical reports and administrative records. The more recent documents in

the files pertain to law suits, court orders, or destruction records. These files were not

designated as assassination records. The extant HTLINGUAL records for Lee Harvey

Oswald and several project "soft" or working files are included in the CIA sequestered

collection and have been processed as a part of that collection for inclusion in the JFK

Collection at the National Archives. Additional HTLINGUAL documents were located

in the archived files of the Deputy Director for Plans. Any documents relevant to the

assassination were designated assassination records and will be processed for inclusion

in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

e: \combs \cia-ir03.wpd

File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4

---

