# 104-10518-10312

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10518-10312

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-=

33124/29 DISSEM PEK

SU

#132

1. lie!

2.

LOSECRET

FRP:

ACTION: C/LASS

(532)

CAPES.

CAPESAPGLA

i so polite me, oder

STAFF

• CICI-3A CALOCAID.

792859872

6. PAGE 001-06

TOR:- 3110312 JUL 179

IN

28598

RA KUEAIIA

DE KUEMFB A0007 2121515

ZNY SSSSS

R 3102501 JUL 79

• FM ULHECTUR, FBI

TO UIKECTUM, CIA

ATT: CUBAN

OPS GROUP

8.

?r.

19.

C.:.:

C/LA

DC/A

5R

,STAF? A

C

CPB

APUB

PHNCR

CARI

HISG

BT

SECRET SECTION I

MILO STALLION; FUREIGA COUNTERINTELLIGENCE • CUBA

THIS CUMMUNICATION IS MARKED SECRET IN ITS ENTIRETY UNLESS

OTMERMISE INDICATED.

UN JULY Z3A 1979, AN OPERATIUNAL ASSET, WHO HAS FURRISMED

RELIADLE MiFORNATIUN IN THE PASTA ADVISEO 45 FOLLONS:

ASSET STATEU THAT HE TRAVELED TU JAMAICA ON JULY 200:1979,

FOK THE PUMPOSE UF MEETING MITH CUBAN UFFICIALS KLUINDING

PHAI HE ASSUME SUULD DE THE PUSSIOLE FELEASE FHUM PRISON OF.

ELUY GUTIERKEL MENGYO AND OTHER HARU-LINE PRISONEKS.

IN THE AFTERNOUN ME VISITEN IME CUDAN EMDAUSY AND ASTEN TO SEE

THE RECEPTIONIST PULiTELY TOLD MIS THAT THE

•ThE VICE CUNSUL NOT IN ANU SUGGESTED THAT ASSET PHUVIDE A PHONE

VICE CUNSUL MAS

'NUMDEN WHEKE ME

COULU DE REACHEU LATEN dI THE AFTERNDON.

TULD MER ME GAS STANDING AT THE SHERATON MOTEL AIU COULD

KEACHED AT KOUM NUMBER 5004.

ASSET SIATED. THAT LATER IN THE EVENING, ABOUT II P.M.. AN

INDIVIUUALA AMU IDERIIFIEL MIMSELF AS DUSDADU SUAREZ CALLED

HIM ANU INSTRUETED MIM TO DE AT THE CUBAI EMBASSY AT 12 P.M.

THE NEXT DAY, JULY 210 197.9.

ASSET CUMFLIEO MITH THESE

INSIMUCTIONS AND APPEAREU AT THE CUBAIN EMGASSY SMURTLY BEFURE"

NE DAS PREMPILY RECEIVED BY CIUSDADO SUGREZA WHO

DISCREETLY PASSED MIM A HANDURITTEN NOTE INSTRUCTING HIM TO

GUARD MMAT ME SAID.

THE NOTE FURTHER INSTRUCTED HIM TO BE AT

THE IGUANEA PLAZA,

HI LO SUPERMARKET, AT 3:30 P.M. ASSET RADE

A FEN INCUNSEQUENTIAL

REMARKS AND THEN QUICKLY LEFT THE

ASSET STATED THAT ME MENT TO THE HI LO. SUPERMARKET TO

ARAIT THE APPEAKANCE OF DIUSDADÚ SUAREZ, MMO ARRIVED PROMPTLY

•Al S:SU P.Mo

vivSUANU SUAKiL UnUrE

ur

ALUNL

IN

ENGLISH-MAVE CAR AND INSTRUCTEU ASSET TU GET

THE CAN.

HE

SECRET

tie sports

Asy;

.::!

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

792859872

PAGE 002

TOR: 3110317 JUL 79

IN 2859872

THEN TOUK A CIRCUITOUS ROUTE MHICH ULTIMATELY LED TO A

LUXURIOUS HOUSE THAT HAS SITUATED IN AN UPPER CLASS NEIGHBORHOOD

TUMARD THE EAST END OF THE CITY.

ONCE AT THE HOUSE, DIOSCADO

SUAREZ LED ASSET TONARD THE PATIO LOCATED DIRECTLY BEHIND THE

HOUSE.

VIOSUNDO TOLO ASSET TO MAKE MIMSELF CUMFORTABLE AND

TOLD MIM TU FEEL FREE TU POUK HIMSELF A DRINK UN HAVE A SNACK

FROM A TABLE THAT APPAKENTLY HAD BEEN SET UF FUR THE PURPOSE OF

MAKING ASSET FEEL MORE AT EASE. DIUSDADO SUAREZ MAS ABOUT TO SAY

SUMETHING ELSE MMEA HE MAS INTERRUPTED bY THE ARRIVAL OF SOME

MEN MMO CAME UP TO THE FRONT OF THE MOUSE.

ME EXCUSED MIMSELF

AND MENT TO THE FRONT OF THE MUUSE TO ATTENO TO THE VISITORS.

FRUM THE PATIO, ASSET MAS ABLE TO OVERHEAR ORE OF THE VISITURS

ASK IF "GANCIA

MAS lit.

DIOSUADO SUAREZ REPLIED THAT

"GANCIL"

MAS

NUT IN, AND THE VISITORS ABRUPTLY LEFT THE AREA.

DIOSUADO

SUAREZ RETURINEU

I0 THE PAYLO AND IMMEDLATELY BEGAN TU ENGAGE

ASSET Ji A FRiENDLY CUNVEKSATION OF A GENERAL NATURE.

ASSET STATEU THAT GIUSDAVO SUAKEZ THEN SHIFTED THE

CUNVEKSATION TO MORE PRESSING NATIENS.

USING A SET UF PREPARLO

QUESTIUIS ÁS A GUINE, DIUSDADO SUAREL

BEGAN TO QUERY ASSET

ABUUT THE ACTIVITiES

OF SEVERAL PHOMINENT CUDAN EXILES..

FIRST

GA THE LIST

MAS SALUADUR ALDEREGUIGO AQUUT AMUS DIUSUADO SUGHEZ

•MARTED TO KIUM WHAT HE HAS DOING TO SUPPORT HIMSELF.

ASSET:

HEFLIED THAT HE MAS NOT SURE,

6UT HE ASSUMED THAT ALDEREGUII

'RAS SELLING HIS SERVICES TO

EXPEDITE THE ISSUANCE OF PRAVEL

VISAS FOR CUBAN EXILES MALTING TU VISIT CUBA.

ASSET AUDED

THAT ME ALSO THOUGHT THAT ALDEREGUIA'S MIFE ALSO MORKED, AND THE

TAU UF THEM MANAGED TO LIVE COMFORTABLY.

ASSET STATED THAT HE

RECEIVLO THE IMPHESSION THAT DIÚSUNNO SUAREL MAS "FISMIRG" FUM

DEKUGATURY. INFUKMATION CONCERNINS ALDEREGULA.

ALTHOUGH

DIOSDANU SUAREZ DID NOT SPECIFICALLY SAY SO, IT SEEMED OBVIOUS

THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAD LOST AHATEVER TRUST THEY MAY HAVE

HAO IS ALVEREGUIA.: DIUSUADO SUAREZ INFERRED THAT THE CUBAN

GUVERNMENT SUSPECTED, TMAT ALDEREGUIA MAD MADE A MDEAL" WITH

AMERICAN AUTHURITIES, MNICH HOULD EXPLAIN THE FACT THAT HE MAS

FOUND INNOCENT OF THE PASSPORT CHANGE AGGINST MIM.

ASSET STATED THAT DIUSDADO SUAREZ MANTED TU ANON IF

ASSET KNEN ANYTHING ABOUT THE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF REINOL

KUDRIGUEZ.

ASSET REPLIED THAT HE HAD NO SPECIFIC INFORMATIOI

CUNCEKRING. THIS INCIDENT AND STATEU THAT IT MAS A COMMUN BELIEF

IN THE MIAMi CUBAN GAILE CUMMUNITY THAT:ARE LUDAL GUVIRIAACNT

MAS MESPONSIDLE FOR THIS AÇTION. DIOSDADO SUAREZ ALSO NEUUESTED

• SECRET

Lating

26907:

it is

---

## Page 3

• SECRET

STAFF

792859872

PAGE DOI

TUR: 3110317°

JUL 79

IN 2859872

INFURMATION CONCERNING THE ACTIVITIES UF ANTUNIO CALATAYUD,

HEINOL CUNZALEO MIGUEL "CUCO" LEUN• ANTONIO VECIANA, AND

ALX LESTER.

DIOSDADO SUAREZ DAS AUSTLY IATEKESTED IN

UPDATING PHONE NUMBERS AND ADDRESSES FOR THESE INDIVIDUALS.

IN AUDITION, DIOSDADO SUAREZ REPEATEDLY REGUESTEO TMAT ASSET

PROVIDE MHATEVER INFORMATION ME PUSSESSEU CONCERNING THE

ACTIVITIES OF COORDIMACION DE URGANILACIUNES UNIDAS

(CUURUINATION UF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS) (CORU).

DIUSUANO SUAREZ APPEARED NUT TU ACCEPT TRE FACT THAT ASSET.

ANU MAS SUPPUSED TU SE "STREETNISE" AND HIGHLY MNUNLEUGEAGLE

ANUUT CUBAN MATTERS, IN GENERAL. DID NOT PUSSESS AT LEAST

USE PUSITIVE BIT UF INFORMATIDI CONCEHILIO THE PRESERT

ACTIVITIES OF CURU.

THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE CUNVERSATION,

DIOSUAVO SUAKEZ INVARIABLY CAME BACK TO THE SUBJECT UF COKU

ANO THIED VNSUCCESSFULLY TO ELICIT SUME POSITIVE RESPONSE

FAUM ASSET.

DIOSDANU SUAREZ ALSO REQUESTEO ILFUKMATION

CUNCEHNING

THE ACTIVITIES UF ALPHA DO AID SEEMEL SATISFIED

MITH THE MESPUNSE THAT

THIS OFGANIZATIUN MAS COMPLETELY

MAKELESS

AND INACTIVE.

DIUSUADO SUAKEZ FURTHER INQUIRED ABOUT

UMEGA 7.

SPECIFILALLY

NANTING TU MAON IlE AMAT CITIES IT MAS

MUST ACTIVE.

ASSET

REPLIEU THAT IT MAS HIS BELIEF THAT OMEGA Y

NAS NUT HEPRESENTEO IN MIAMI AND EAS MOST ACTIVE DI PUERTO FICO

NEn YORK.

ASSET STATEO THAT AT ONE POINT, MÉ CASUALLY MENTIUNED TO

DIUSUAVO

SUAREZ THAT HE HAD MEAÑO TMAI

UNLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ,

AMU USED TO PURK FOR THE VENEZUELA: GUVERUMENT, HAD RECENTLY

VISITEU CUOR.

DIUSDADO SUAKEZ DIU NOT IMMEDIATELY RESPOND

AlOU IASTEAD GUT UP AND WALKED GUER TO THE SHIMMING POOL AS IF

TO MANT TO AVOID BEING OVERNARD MITH KEGARD TO WHATEVER HE

MAU TU SAY GA THIS MATTER.

ASSET STATEN THAT HE TOO GOT UP AID

FULLUMED DIUSDADO TU THE EDGE OF THE SHIMMING POOL NHERE DIUSDADO

SUAREZ, TRYING TO SOUND VERY EMPHATIC, STATEO THAT THE ONLY

MAY ORLANDO GARGLA

PRISONERS ABLYING THAT ERS ALLO ENTER CUBA WOULD BE AS MESS

ALLEGED COMPLICITY IN THE BOMBING

OF THE CUBANA AIKLINER NEAR

BARDADOS MALE HIM AN ETERNAL ENEMY

UF THE CUBAI GOVERNMENT.

DIOSDADO SUAREZ SAID NOTHING MORE

AbUUT THIS, AND THE TWO OF THEM RETURNED TO THEIR SEATS ON

THE PATIO.

ASSET EXPLAINED THAT A DEVICE MMICH APPEARED TO BE

A MICKOPHONE MAU BEEN PLACED AT THE DASE OF THE PATIO TABLE:

Ith Uf MESSAGE

pretery

SECRET

..d

i.:

L

---

## Page 4

4-00000

-3

03/141

DISSEM PER SUP $132

SECRET

FRP:

STATE

ACTION: NONE

• 2860631

INFO: KFO FILE,

(21n)

of

TUR:

PAGE

odd

3110592 JuL 79

IN 2860036

RE RUEAIJA

DE RUEHF& #0U08 2121530

ZNY SSSSS

R 3102507 JUL 79 ZOK

FM DIRECTOR, FBI

TO DIRECTOR, CLA

ATTN: CUbAN OPS GROUP

BT

SECRET SECTION Z UF Z

MILD STALLION; FUREIGO COUNTERINTELLIGENCE • CUBA

DiUSUANO NEVER MADE REFERENCE TO ITO AND ASSET DID NOT SAY

AYTMING ABOUT IT; HOMEVERA IT MAS EVIDENT THAT THEIR ElITIRE

CUNVEKSATIUN MAS DEING RECURDEU.

ASSET STATED THAT HE ALSU

SUSPICTED THEY HERE BEING UBSERVEU FROM INSIDE THE MUUSE

BECAUSE ME MEGRO OCCASIONAL NUISES THAT APPEARED TU COME FROM.

MITHIA THE HOUSE.

ASSET STLTED THAT DIOSDADO SUAREZ GAVE ASSET INSTRUCTIUNS

FUK THEIR NEXT MEETING, AMICH MUULE DE. SEPTEMBER 20, 1974,

MINGSTUDiO JAMAILHO AT A CAFÉTERIA INSIDE A URUGSTORE LAMEU.:!

• ELUNGE'S PHARMACY.

AT EXACTLY 3 P.MO SUMEONE WILL APPROACH

ASSET AND AJK THE FULLUNIG QUESTIDIN:

"USTED ES PRIMO DE !!

"GHE YOU MAD'S CUUSIN?"

HIS CUUNTER ANSHER SAOULD bE

•YU IÙ SOY DE ESA FANILIA.

YO SULU SUY AMIGU DE EL.".

I.AM

NUT FAUM THAT FAMILY. I AM ONLY MIS FRIELU."

DIUSDADS

SUAKEL STATED THAT IF HE DESIRES TO CONTACT ASSET SOONEN THAN

THIS UNIE, ME MILL SCIÜ MIM A TELEGHAN KEGARDING THE ISSUANCE

OF A FILTiTIOUS VISA.

IT HALL COiTAliA DATE WHICH MILL

INUILATE TO ASSET. THAT HE SHOULO TRAVEL TO JAMAICA ON THIS

DATE.

IF-IT IS THE OTHER WAY AROUNG AND ASSET MAS SOME

JARURTANT: IFUMATLON THAT CANNOT MALT UNTIL INE SEPTEMBER ZOTH

MEETING. ME IS TO SEND A TELEGRAM TO THE CUBAN VICE CUNSUL IN

JAMAICA.

THE TEXT.UF THE TELEGRAM WILL BE A SIMPLE INQUIRY

ABOUT A FICTITIOUS. VISA AND SMUULD BE SIGNED "DOMINGO RAMOS,."

AHICM MILL BE A CLUE TO DIÜSUADO SUAREZ IMAT ASSET IS REQUESTING

TU MEET MITH MIM.. DIUSDAVO SUAREZ STATED THAT FOR THEIR iEXT

MEETING. ASSET SHUULD ATTEMPT TO USTAI: THiE-ADDRESS ANU PHONE

NUMBER OF RICARDO "MONO" MURALES AS HELL AS INFORMATIUN

LUILEMOING THE CURRENT ACILVATIES UF CURU.

ME CAUTIUNEN ASSET

TU ANUID ASSUCIATING WITH ALDEREGUIA

AND UUNEY PEREZ ALAMU.

HE TOLU ASSET-NOT-TO RELATE TO PEREZ ALAMO ANTHING CONCERNING

SECRET

47 ATT

f: :

---

## Page 5

SECKET

STAFF

57372

79 2850630

PAGE

0 t

TOR:

3110592 JUL 79

182600030

ИНАТ

THEY HAD DISCUSSED.

ASSET STATED THAT DIUSUADO SUAREZ ASKED IF THERE RAS

ANYTHING ME COULU DO FOR ASSET, PRESUMELY IN EXCHANGE FUR

HIS FUTURE COOPERATION.

ASSET RESPONDEO BY SAYING THAT IF

PUSSIBLE, ME NDULD LIKE TU VISIT MIS HUMETUNN IN CUBA.

DIUSDADO SUAREZ INNICATED THAT IT MOULÜ BE iO PROBLEM; HUMEVER.

17 MOULD HAVE TO DE AFTER THE DATE OF IME VI SUNMIT CONFERENCE

OF NUMALIGED MATIULiS.

ASSÈT ALSU REGUESTEU THAT HIS MOTMEN

BE ALLOMÉD TÙ LEAVE CUBA FUR A 9O-DAY VISIT IN MIAMI.

UlOSDADO

SUAREZ PROMISED THAT ME MOULO MAKE THE NECESSARY ARKANGEMÉliTS

FUR SUCH & TRIP.

ASSET MADE NO. FURTHER REQUESTS UTMER THAN TO

INUUIRE IF DIOSUADU SUGREL NAS GOING TU KLINDUASE MIM FOP. MIS

THAVEL EXPENSES, MUTINÜ THAT HE HAD MLÜE THE TRIP AT THE

INUINECT REQUEST UF INE CUBAN GOVERNMENT.

DIUSUANO SUAREZ

SEEMEU

NOT TO KWUE MOM TÜ RESPOND AND SAID THAT HE THNUGHT

THAT THIS PATTER MAD ALKEGUY BEEN HANDLED.

IlO A MANNER THAT.

SUGGESTEU THAT ME DID NOT MANT TO BE DUTMEREN BY SUCH TRIVIAO

DIOSUANU SUAREZ SALU HE VUULO CUNTACT HAVANA TE SEE UMAT GUULO

DE DONE ABOUT THIS MATTER.

ASSET STATEU IMAT MIS INTERVIEN MiTH DIOSDADO SUAREZ:

LASTED UNTIL GOUUT 9 PO. AFTEN MHICH NIUSUADO SUGREL RETURNED

HIM TU THE VICINITY UF

MIS MOTEL.

ASSEI HAD NO FURTHER SUNTACT

AIN DIOSDADE ANU METURICO TO MIAMI MITMUUT INCIDENT THE

•FOLLUMING DATA JULl 22, 1974.

1T HAS MIS IMPRESSION THAT I!

DIOSUANO SUAKEZ ACTED MURL LINi AN AGMIIISTHATOR THAN AN

IPTELLIGENCE

AGENT HiD SELMED TUTALLY CONFUSED ABUUT THE!!

OVEHALL SPECTRUM OF ACTIVITIES AND PEESGIALITIES THAT EXIST IN

TME ¡XILE COMMULITILS UUISIVE UF CUBA.

HE FURNISHEU THE

FOLLUMiNO DESCHIPTIDI OF LiUSUADO SUAREZ:

"HITE MALE, ABOUT

3O YEAHS OLU, ABOUT 5'10" TALL, ABUUT 175 FUUNDS, SLIGNTLY • _

BALDING.

DRONN HAIR, BRUYN EYES, NO MUSTACHE OR BEARD.

IT

SHOULD BE MUTED THAT AT NO TIME DID DIUSDADO SUAKEZ

MANE MENTION OF ELOY GUTIEKKEZ MENOYU.OR UTHER PULITICAL

PRISUNEAS.

•ASSET DEDUCED THAT HE HAU

BEEN SUMMUNED TO JAMAICA

FOR THE EXPRESS PURPOSE OF BEING DEBKIEFED REGARDING HIS

KAUNLEUGE OF

ANTI-CASTRO MATTERS AND NOT FUN THE PURPOSE OF.

DISCUSSING THE POSSIBLE RELEASE OF ELOY GUTIERREZ AS ME MAD,

BEEN LED TO BELIEVE BY DUNEY PEREZ ALAMU.

THE 'ASSET TRAVELED TO JAMAICA IN CONNECTION KITH THE

Pajjurin

UK GUINANCE UF. IMIS DUNLAU.

'SECRET

RGeT: 6191

1013 300

41:

09701.

1:i2

so i

---

## Page 6

4-00000

SECRET

STAFF

74 2860612

PAGE 0D3

TOR: 3110592 JUL 79

IN 2860036

C AND EO BY 5236, REASON 2.

30 DRO JULY 30a 1999.

^....

END UF MESSAGE

---

## Page 7

14-00000

AUG 10 '99

FD siA ReV, 2-18-95)

08: 49AM

P.1

FBI FACSIMILE

COVERSHEET

PRECEDENCE

• Immediate

priority

E Routine

CLASSIFICATION

Top Secret

Secret

•Confidential

I Sensitive

→ Unclassified

Time Transmitted:

Sender's Iitials:

dete

Number of Pages:

(including coversheet)

Date: 8/10/99-

To:

Name of Office

Facsimile Number:

703-613-3060

Aten:

Kathy Puchack

Name

Ronm

Telephone

From:

FRIH&

Name of Office

Subject: JFK Assassination Matters

Special Handling Instructions:

Originator's Name: Debbie Sant

- Telephone: 202324-6182

Originator's Fastalle Number: 202.354-947/

Approved:

Brief Description of Communication Fared:

Kathy Everything thate See an "S" brails or

at and of TH

classed and to be wintell

18. 1C por FBI.

iny questions, please sall me

Sony, it took so long

Thanks

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Classification of Material Transmitted

WITHERE

+HH+744747477774478444444444744778787

• HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Phone # 703-613-1806

PLEASE DELIVER IMMEDIATELY

758+*

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

SUBJECT: FBI 212/515 and 2121530

FROM: Kathy Puchnick CIA

SENDING FAX NO. 703-613-3060

DELIVER TO: Debbie Bealty, FBI

RECEIVINGFAX NO. 1- 202-324-9471

DATE TRANSMITTED: 'July PAGES TRANSMITTED: 8

(including cover sheet)

RELEASING OFFICIAL: Kackle i Purchrick

X++++77777777777777777777*7777777777877

-$-***

******

MESSAGE:

Classification of Material Transmitted

---

## Page 9

14-00000

12July 99

Debbie Beatly, FBI

attached is a z-part Telecom

Pon T# I (2121515902121530)

dated 31 July 1979. CIA Has ne

objection to the release afte

information in this document

but defer to yours for any

Past prements. Thank you

Kicky Pucknick

---

