# 104-10213-10022

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10213-10022

--

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF, 1992 10022

INTRONICT ON

Lee larvey Sillid first cane to sini

attention

upon receipt of AIRGRA' no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, froz the

United Staies Embassy in Moscow, in which it was stated tha:

OSiVALS had appeared at the Embassy on 31 Octover to renounce his

American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in !loscow

for Soviet citisenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on

15 October. The first public reference to OSWALD appeared in the

Washington Post of 1 Vovenber 1959.

insi

On 2 November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedpa...

trace be run on Lee larvey OSKALD in the deeper central holda.

ings.

Egg response on 4 Vovember was negative.

Because of the counterintelligence inplications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to acconmodate biographic infor-

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of

State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of American de-

fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's name was one of those

appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3

November 1950; a final reply on 21 Novenber 1960. Until early

October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-

ted entirely of press clippings and reports disseminated by the

Departnent of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the:

Departnent of the Navy.

On &e October 1963, the CIA Station in Mexico City rectived

itar sont retrate source, re tro offace that "an Aners-

can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in lexico

City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ.

sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to....

whom he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier, on

..

Saturday, 29 September. He asked whether there had been a reply

to a telegran that the Consul with whom he had spoken, but whose

name he could not recall, had promised to send to lashington.

---

## Page 2

fir

OBYEDOV had attenpted to establish the identity of the Consula

with whos OSirAlD had talked: 1f i: had been a dar's person, shen.

! it had probably been (Valeriy Vladiaitovich) KOSTIKOV..

OBYEDKOV ,

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSVALD the

telegra had been sent to dashingion sue no answer nad been re-

ceived."

& this infortationy

received in Headquarters on 9 October. (EXT - 6453 (IN

360121. 2 0Et0ber 1903.1 A file check on 10 October by Agency

personnel in Washington revealed the possibility that the Lee

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably with KOSTIKOV

and Lee Harvey

OSWALD, the defector,

were the same person.

On 10 October: 1963_CIA Headquarters disseminated by cable

EDIR 74623, 10 October 1963] the

report in substantially the form

and detail given above, to governnent agencies whose jurisdictionai

interests tad been established by a router of ossaces end ther

Federal sureau of investigation, the Deparenone of state, the Des

parenone of the van, and the insigration and lacuraliacion sen

vice, I comment was included in the report noting the liklihood

that Lee OSWALD was probably identical with the forner marine who .

had defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

(Conment: - For some un-

explained reason, OSWALD's statement that he had been to the Sovietl

¡ Embassy two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt been included

in the dissemination.)

On the sane day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to the

Mexico City Station a lengthy cable sunnary (DIR 74830, 0ctobe5

1965] of the background information held in the Headquarters le

on OSWALD.

The Mexico City Station was instructed to pass the suo

stance of its 9 October report to the local representatives of

sane ü.s. coverent agencies and departments that had been the

infornation in itastrington.

Amb

pr sas pasged

abet to the legal

reacho a neur ad regine

dor, the Minister. the counsetor

palitical

L Affai

---

## Page 3

14-00000

According to Agency files, the Chief of Station addressed

a senorandus or 15 detober 1053 to the Jabassador in inhich i= vas

Istated that "On 1 October 1963, an American male contacied the

Soviet Enbassy and identiried hinsel: as Lee OSilALD.... This office

determined that OSirald had been at the Soviet Enbassy on 29 Septen-

Set 1963 and lad talked with valerly vladittrovich XOSTISOy,-a me

ver of the consutar section, in order to lears is the Soviet ambas

sy had received a reply froz lashingion concerning his requesti

He have no clarifving information with regard to this request.".

securand monste that "our Headquarters has informed

the

us that/OSWALD above is probably identical with Lee Henrylsief

SMAD, born 1 October 13 1a New Cleans, Louisiana, a forner

radar operator in the U:S. Marine Corps who defected to the Soviet

Union in October 1959": The original of this nenorandun was for-

warded to the Ambassador, the Minister, the counselor for Pelitical

Affairs, the Regional Security officer, with e

nat copies tiest to

thè begal detache, the Vavel ittache, and the representativo of

the innigration and Naturalization Service

On 18 October 1963, FBI Headquarters in Nashington received a

"Kpa

| cablegtam from A Legal Attäche in Mexico City." This cablegram furl

nished information from CIA classified'SECRET - Not to be further

Disseminated", reporting that Lee OSiVALD had contacted Soviet Vice

Consul Valeriy

KOSTIROV, of the Soviet Embassy, Mexico City;

-

Mexico, on September 28, 1963, The Legal

Attache indicated that he

was following this matter with CIA and was attempting to establish.

OSWALD's entry into Mexico and his current whereabouts- [Connission

Exhibit no. 834, PP- 8-9, Vol. XVIT, Hearings before the Prest

dent's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. J.

äd-i

By the 25th of october tos, for Headquarters had beformed it

field office in New orleans that "another agency had determined

that bee OsWALD was in contaer with the Soviet Eabassy in Mexico.

Cisy in tha darly part of October 19630, The von Orieans eield

office forwarded this information to the FBI Field öffice in Dallas

en 25 Oateber 1963. IVaL. IV, PRe 441 and 159, 402

3025.99

- Hearings before cl

Fistinein

---

## Page 4

vividlugi

identi scr

callar

2122.

President's Conmission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.]

Betreen 10 October ard 22 dovember 1965 there bano dolo

ban requests/fron recipients of the 10 October dissenination.

for further information or follow-up investigation.

On 2Z Novenber 1965, after the news of the assassination nad

reached sexico fity, the station inttiated a revier of alt voice

intercesi audo photograpite coverago of boti ene sonior and

Cuban Embassiesi This revier of voice intercept transcripts cor-

ducted by the monitor and other Station personnel turned up other

a conversations questa on 27 and 28 September and

on 1 October 1965j These transcripts vero reported to Headquarters

on.

23 November I963:

NEXI-7023 (IN. 67108); MEXI=702S (IN 67188),

and MEXI-7033 (IN 67232) • 1

From. this review by. the Station it became evident that OSWALD

had also visited. the cuban Consulate in Mexaco City and had talked

there with a clert, a exican national, ranet silvia DUrty.:

ifter.

Figura

tho assassination and the publieity about lee OSwALd, Silvia DURak

had tolda aunber of retarives and triends chat she had calked se

OSWALD about a Cuban visa.

.Silvia DURAN and her husband, Horacio.

- DURAY Navarro, were detained and questioned by the Mexican police

from 23 to 25 November 1963.

i--.

After giving some of the details of her own personal back-

ground - she was an adnitted leftist sympathizer and had fornerly

worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations - Sil-

via DURAN said that when she first heard of the death of President

Kennedy she had beer depressed and thought-the assassin must have

been a naniac. When she learned he was associated with the "Fair

Play for cuba Committee" she did not belleve 1t.

When she learned the name of the assasst was lee OSitALo

she remembered ho was the wan who had come to the consutate about

tho months before to set a visa to pass through Guar on his way. so

the Soviet Union, She realized that he had said he tas martied to

Russian and that he had belanged ta the "Fair Play ser cuba""

group. She checked her file on him in the consular dechives and

• sisisita

---

## Page 5

f:.

•1.

from the description of OSWALD, she was sure it 'vas the sano man.

OSVALD was denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have.

a Soviet visa, and he was told to get the Soviet visa first, but lt

iwas noted that this, would require about four sonths. She had asked

the Cuban Consul hinself, Euscbio AZCUE, to calk to OSwALD and. they

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSwALD to Teave Mexico instead of

matting there. The consul had phoned the sovlei consulace and

tatted to the person handling oswald's visa request, aho had sate

It would take about four months to hear from lordon about the sovie

visa The cano aflooon, OSWALD hadicone back again and she had

rold hin the same thing. She gave OSKALD-a slio of paper with her

rane and telephone munher an it in case he ever set us sarat vish

he did not call back, she said.

Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

¡from 27 to 29 November but she did not change or add materially-to'

her story about ÖSWALD..

It is known that the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico, Joaquin

HERNANDEZ Armas; reported on

the detainment-and interrogation of f7

Silvia DURAN by the Mexican authorities.

The Cuban Governent also

sent the Mexican covernment a stiff noce of protest, which the Mexi-

can Government rejected.

On 26 November, the day after DURAV's release, Cuban Pra

sident DORTICOS queried HERVANDEZ about his report. HERVANDEZ COnCA

firmed that there bad been an altercation between OSWall and consul

AZEUE.

porties made a persistent but unsuccessful effort to de

termine fron Hervave? whother the Hexican authorities had threate

nod Silvia DURaV so that she would make a statesent that the Con-

sulate "had given soney to that American": HERVANDEZ'S

-response

as that nothing of that sort had bappened. NEXt -1068 CIN *2

26 November 1963; FMMA-22545; 29 November 19631

The CIA follow-up investigation produced the following

confinied results which have a bearing on Silvia DURAV's account!

a. 27 September, In mid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN Infor:

to insides

---

## Page 6

--53 ..

med the sovier Embassy that a male Anerican citizen had

requested à visa to transit Cuba on his way to the Soviet

Union. She desired to know with whoa the daerican bad

spoke at the Soviet Consulate. Also she indicated thaz

---

## Page 7

14-00000

=$ -

the Cuban Consulate could grant hia a visa and arrange

innizzation details if the concession of a Soviet visa were

assured.

b. 2i Septenber. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURiN

received a confirmation from the Soviet Embassy that the

American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown

then a letter from the Soviet Consulate in lashing:on indi

cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself

and his wife to go to the USSR.. No answer had come from

Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes four

or five months. The American also had a letter attesting.

that he was a member of a pro-Cuban organization but he had;

claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he

had already received a Russian visa. -

Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate!

Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give hima transit

visa unless a Soviet visa was forthconing, notwithstanding

the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his

Soviet visa. According to DURAN, the American knew no one

in Cuba and she intended to make an appropriate annotation

on the Anericants card. The Sovirt official echoed her

statement that the American was not known..

c. 28 September. Silvia DURAN was again visited at

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City by the American seeking a

Cuban transit visa. Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two men-

bers of the Soviet Enbassy and facilitated a direct con-

versation between one of the Soviets and the American.

Speaking in poor Russian, the American stated that he alr:

ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had left an ad-

dress. The Soviet official replied that he was aware of

that. The American suggested that he had not known his

address then, and he had gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they had it. The American then

---

## Page 8

acceded to the Soyiet official's invitation to come by, =

- ..

and give them the address.

d. 1 October.. In mid-norning an unidentified individual

speaking broken Russian, contacted the Soviet Military.

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the Eno

bassy the previous Saturday (28 Septenber) and had zalked

with a consul who had said they would send a telegran to

washington. had there been a reply? He was referred to

-tire Consulate for the information.

These additional materials were promptly disseminated in Washington

or tho clinto the sto louse the Depertnent of state, and the e

Federal sure de ravesciacion lou telerpe no 291s, date

2s Naveaber 1965 esct-3/178,826, dared 23 Vovember 1963.]

Die is believed that the soviet official wieh whom OSWALD

deáit in Mexico Cicy was Consular Attache Valerty Viadimirovich

KOSTIXOV, born on Moscow, i7 March 1933. In his letter of 9 Voren-

ber 1963 ¿ó the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSVALD wrote about:

his "geetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic) of the Soviet Union in Mexi

co. City, Mexico": There is no official of the Soviet Eabassy in

Mexico City with a name resembling "KOSTIN", other than Consul a

KOST RƠY :

KOSTIKOV was the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters: There

was fira evidence for the conclusion that KOSTTOV was a Soviet

State Security (KO!) officer, and the other four Consular officers.

Were also know or street suspected i sets sorter state security

persomel serving under official cover.

-KOSTIKOV-was-believed-co-be a nember-of-Department Thir

teen of the First Chief Directarate of the ke? Department Thie

keen is responsible for executive action, including sabotage and

assassination. Its headquarters according to l very rellable in

formation conducts interviens or, as approoriate, file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the USSR to study and to deter-

---

## Page 9

acceded to the Soviet official's invitation to come by,?:

•and give them the address.

d. =1 October.. In mid-norning ais unidentified Individual

speakiag broken Russian, contacted the Soviet Military .:

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the, in:

bassy the previous Saturday (28 September) and had calked

with a Consul who had said they would send a telegran to

washington! had there been a reply? He was referred to

= the Consulate for the information

Thest additional materials were promptly disseminated in Washington

by tho GIAnto tho whito House, the Department of state, and cho

Federal Bureau of

Investigation

- our Teletype no 81915, dated

1s soreber 1961 SCt-3/179,326, dated 23 Novenber 1968 1 0305

te to belleved chat the soviet obeicial men hon oskAlD!

deaté in Mexico city was Consular Attache Valerly Vladimirovich

KOSTIXOY, born on Moscow, iT March 1933.

In his letter of o Noven"

ber 1963 to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD vrote about.

his "geetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic]. of the soviet Union in Mexis

co. City, Mexico". There is no official of the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City with a name resembling "KOSTIN", other than Consul

KOSTIKOV :

7:=.

KOSTIKOV was. the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There

was firs evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV was a Soviet

state Security (XG8) officer, and the other four Consular officers.

2/96:

personnel serving under official cover.

-KOSTIKOV-was-believed-to-be-a-member-of-Department Thir

reen of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB

Department This

reen is responsible for executive action, including sabotage and

assessinstion.. Its headquarters according to a very rollable ian

formation conducts interviews or, as approoriate, file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the USSR to study and to deter.

---

## Page 10

• ">

•.=..

mine the possibillsy of utilizing the defector in his country of

lorigin.

• [Comment:

OSHALD's contact with a keYe clich particularly

¡an officer of the 13ch Depastnent, was fainties

Rossily

+4.74500

Tra sore sinister reasons thanito

obtain travel documents allowing hit to pass through cuba on his

way to the soviet Union. rests

great deal of ture and effort hi trymy to take a determitation a5

to whether OsHALD, as the assassin of president kennedy, might have

been acting in the capatety of a vitting agent of a foreiga povori

!. The -extrasiva...

wash review.and study of all available material m

provided:: 10-87553360

eve that OSiALD had been acting under direc

Ition of the KGB.

The Agency also examined all available inforation in an

attempt to deternine the exact nature of his contacts with the cu.

ban Consulate in Mexico City. The Agency was equally unsuccessful

-=.

lin uncovering any evidence that OSWALD's contacts with personnel •

'of the Cuban Consulate had any other notive than to obtain a tran-

isit visa for Cuba, T

wanting bitranc==3

OSWALD's reasons forArajeling to the Scriet Union have

never been satisfactorily deternined.)

-=..

---

## Page 11

14-00000

"The evidence indicates that Lee Harvey

OSWALD was in exico City

fran 27 September

1963 through 2 Ociober 1363.. On October 19,

1963, Bureau Headquarters Has provided with

•a copy.of a ClA cable. which stated that 'Lee

Henry OSwALD' [sicl had been in contact with

Ine Soviet

Enbassy in Mexico Cisy on Septem-

ber 28, 1963. 36

- Footnote no. 36: CIA cable E=on Mexico Station

to 591 HeadsaTters 19t17/65, memorandan STom

LEGAT, Mexico City to FBI headquarters, 10/19/63.

all che infarazion has che ElI had prior

to November 22, 1963, on OSHALD'S activities in

Mexico city came fron the ClA.

On October 3,

1963,

the CIA Mexico Station reported

to Head-

quarters

that OSWALD had been

in contact with t

The

Soviet Enbassy.

on october 10,

1955, CIA

passed this information with sone background

material to the Navy, the state department, and

• the FBI.

-The Mexico Station nade a similar

distribution to FBI and State Department-offi

cials in Mexico. - Since OSWAID was an American

citizen; and since FBI was the responsible

agency, disseminating this information ended

in CIA's responsibility in this tatter.

an...

Errose in above quote from Book Ver

as The CIA dissemination of 19 October 1963

(DIR 746731 20 the FBI, Navy, and State, made no mention

siniste

Of OSWALD'S contact with the Soviet Enbassy on 28 September

1903. Arthough tuts information had teen reported. to Head

•=

quarters by MEXI 6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1953, the netion

desti neglected to includin its dissenination chac in addi-

1 October, OSHaLD hád sentioned that he lad visited the

Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1963.

-an:

b. On & october 1965, not 3 october. the CIA

Mexico Station reported to Headquärters that OswalD had me

been in contact with the soviet Embassy, The cable was

=-тедо

received in Headquarters on 9 October 1963. '

.:

_C. The Mexico Station nade a similar distri

bution to FBI and State officials in Mexico on 16 October

• 1963.

This menorandun addressed to the Anbassador with

copies to the Minister, the Counselor for Political Mia

fairs, the Regional Security Officer, the Legal Aetacher! te

the Naval Attache, and the IGNS representative lacluded

---

## Page 12

14-00000

the statement that "This office deternined tha: ÖSVALD had been

at the Soviet Enbassy on 28 September 1963 and had talked vich

Valeriy Vladinirovich KOSTIKOV, a member of the Consular Sece As

tion, in order to learn if the Soviet: Eabassy had received a

reply fron washington concerning his request."

2201

---

## Page 13

14-00000

•1

196.

Icisalsains.ructiveta.ase

that CIA Director John

MCCONE telephoned

FBI DireCtOr HOOVER On the arrive aE le:

venber 26, 1963,

and after noting that the

Presicent wanted to make sure the CIA was

givire the F3I full support, specifically

offered to make

'CIA'S operational resources

in Mexico

available to the Bureau..

*

"The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI asked the CIA to conduct an investi-

gation of gather Informatton on the assas5t-

nation

case, but middle-level cia personnel

did routinety provide the jaredu niti infor

mation that came to their attention in the

ag5795in9ti0n easell

ripagosal

Coment:

Herewith

incomplete list of requests From the FBI

16953

¡for assistance and infornation from the CIA.- The list speaks

for.itself..i

426 November

ет 1963 79

a subject. Richard Thomas GIBSON.

(Paraphrase) During the afternoon of 26

HovenDer INAHITION 1? passed. to the Fit

-representative in Bern a report (quoted

in full in the cablo The FBI represeni

tative innediately notified EL'ARD (P)

and after discussing the content of the

report it was

agreed that ELMARD would

CarraCE INANITION SOOTeST, ELMARD em-

-: phasized the utmost importance the US

Government attached to follow-up of this

-ELMARD received pronpt aaswers

to initial questions and arranged to neet

with IVANITION/20, INAVITION6 in conpany

with the FBI representative in Bern.

_ IBERN 2492. (IN 68312), 26 November 1963

28 November

1963

-Subject:

Rumored $5,000 bank deposit.-

made by OSiVALD upon return fron

Mexico

on 3 actaber 1963

The FBI has just levied en us ar official

- request for full information on source

and erigin of

runor about five thous and

dollars bank deposit.

TOTR 85654, 28 November 1963T

---

## Page 14

28 November 1963

Subject:

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO.

The FBI liaison officer

(S. PAPICH) offi-

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

_CUTA ALVARADO Over tO MeriCan

authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican authori

ties to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it understands that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

polystaphing and requests that Cha Ter

::quest Mexican authoricies that he be poly-

graphed.

...

The FBI expressed a desire-to have the re-

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

blo and chat the Legal caciro bo kept advised

of developments.:

[DIR 85663, 28 November 1963)

20 November 1963

1555.0,

VIMT PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November".

1963..

'He referred to the fact that there is a

report that the Third Secretary of the Cuban

Embassy in The Hague, Ricardo SANTOS, has a pro

LS' CASTRO brother in the United States.. He stated -

that he rould appreciate our checking our files

12A2

Nor-taking such other steps as may be indicated

so provido the Buroa with the idcinity of the

brother said to be in the u. Se

•(Memorandum from CI/SIG to Chief, WH/3, 29

Voxember 1963.1

9

December 1963

Subject: Chinese Communist and CAstro Plot.

=At 0900 ön 9 December 1965 MI. "PAPICH of the

FBI called and advised that the Bureau had a

communicatton frou tileir kiani field office

setting forth information which had been re-

ceived in a memorandut iron our office in

-Miami concerning a report which had been re-

ceived from a western diptonat alleging that

- the assassination of President Kennedy was the

jesult-of-aplat-prepared.and.executed.jointly.

-by the chinese communists and CASTRO through

intermediaries.:

Mr. PAPICH stated that the Bureau would like

• to evaulate this information if possible •

Said

the Bureau was very much interested in

identifying the source and

It would appreciate

any information we can

give on where and how

this diplomat got this information since 1t

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa-

tIon. He said that the Bureau would find the

---

## Page 15

14-00000

Identity of the source

and possible access

to the source, if in this country, most

helpful.

wenorandun for the Record, dated 9 Deceaber

1963; subject:

Lee HarveY OSiLALD.}

119 December 1963

Subject:

Nomenclature of weapon possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSNALD.

-

•On 18 December 1963 a representative of your

Bureau requested cartfying inforuation about

"certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

I to a firearm once possessed in the soriet Union

-ruby Lee OSWALD.. . .

We were asked to determine what kind of weapon

this might ao.

49432246932382

Traci

[SCI-3/179,225 20 the FBI, dated 19 Decerber

19o5; Sunect omeneature. "E Heapon possibly

amed.by Les-Harvey OSWALD.]

= 7.January 1964

3707

Subject:

Jack L. RUBY >

Kr. Carlos VIlLA, Miant,

Florica,.

furnished to

the FBI On December 21, 1963,

a.letter wnich.

had been forwarded to a friend of his nated

Jose Antonio:Juan.

Mr.. Juan had received

tetter. from his son tiving in Euba.

In the lettor the statoment was madey

known here that, RUBINSTEIN was here a little

Less thana year aga visiting a MI PRAYSKI

owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles,

Jacated on trade Street between drinas and

*Trocadero,

opposite the Sevilla Biltnore.".

•It is requested that, through available sources

of your Agency

develop any infornation

Possible relating to the ahove quated statement

In an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack L. RUBY has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

?:~3 FBI Memorandum to the DDP, dated 7 January

Subject:. Jack bo RUBY.

9 January 1964

Subject; Lee Harvey OSWALD

Attached is a copy of a memorandum fron the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Harvey

•OSWALD dated 31 December 1963 and an enclosure

-

to the nemorandun containing nares

and_addresses

found

OSWALD'S

address

book

and other papers

at the time

of his arrest in Dallas,

Texas.

will be noted that the Bureau has asted us to

---

## Page 16

determine whether any of the listed nanes,

addresses or telephone numbers have

in the

past been connected with the Soviet intelli-

gence serkices.

(Memarandun for Chief. OS/SRS;

dated 9 January

1963; Subject

Lee Harvey OSWALD.)

114 Januarr 1961

Our Chief of Station in Mexico dispatched cable WEXI.

(IN 98273)1, advising of a request on the part of the Legal

¡Attache for the development of information concerning one Daniel

SOLIS' KROMledge Of ROJAS, whose name appears to be Yario ROJeS

Villanueva, a 31-year old Mexican citizen residing in Guadalajara

and information concerning the names of cubans appearing in ala

Talleged notebook.said to be in the possession of sorts, and an 2p

stratanacca? 9652052045531517

alleged official of. the American Governnent. sald to have been in

COME ICE WITH OSTALD DI COZOMEI, HaWEd AlbETt LNU:

ten andan for the Record, dated 15 January 1964, Subject:

ter

HATVOK OSHALD.}

16÷14352

52531

1 February 1965 4

2033 357374

* Subject Elädio ROJAS Villanueva.

The legäl Attache in Mexico City would prefer that the

COs tell Luis ECHEVARRIA, -acting minister of sobernacio, name of

"subject and that with ROJAS' agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and prozise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of the resukts of the test

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer have the

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, It ClA strongly preferse

get theif headquarters! and subject's agreement to go to Texas..

(MEXI-S117 (IN ISO81 FebruaTY 1964T

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

¿ additional questions be put to Daniel SOLIS:

a.. Verify is SOLIS has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva aka Eladio

VILLLVUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 17

MIT Edwin.O. JOHNSON, Consulado Anericano, Guaza»

Lajaray Ja115C0.

- Letters in possession of VILLAYUEVA indi

cate hewas.in-Cozunel.wich-Daniel SOLIS-for

_at_least_three months-in 1963.

_ Can SOLISIe=

call dates?.

d. Ask SOLIS iS VILLAVUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or Anericans while in Cozunel: Ask hin

= how VILLANUEVA occupied his time.

MEXI -8194 (IN 18129) 12 February 1964.15

25 Pebruary 1969

2.57

-Sabjec

= Jack: Li.

- RUBT.

=÷?.

uFt. wor

a be apprectated you could promptly:

I-S€

any information ava table to you to

25402

_tend to verify this travel by RUBY."

(Memorandum ta Mr

angrier

-:000:..

from Clark D.: ANDERSON; Legal Attache (Mexico City); Subject:

15. 02

1G6.3V03

2I-T

Jack L: RUBY,1

13 April 1964

Subject. Lee Harvey OSVALD's Access to Classified

Information about the Ual:

"Reference is made to your letter, dated 13

April 1964, captioned Tee Harvey OSWALD, In

Leroy Frar

Ten Sea Re can and to the

attachment which contained statements made

by one Eugene J. HOBBS, HAC, USN. Your ferter

requested-certain information regarding sub-

-ject's Marine assignment at-the Naval-Air

Statton,-Atsugi, Japan, in-1957-and 1958.".

[Menerandun for Director, Fedesal Bureau of Tavestigation,

=

dated 13 May 1964, from CIA.)

dis

---

## Page 18

10 June 1964

-Subject: - Lee Harrey OSTALD.

ust is believed this stlegasion that-

..."d.:.

OSWALD waS in-Fangier, Morocco, should

-ba investigated-and-you-are-requested-to

-casduct the necessary-inquiries, -if pos..

sible, to resolve the allegation. -Inasmueh

as it appears that the President's Comi-

ssion.contemplates_the issuance.of.its-re-

-port in the near future, its believed

this matter should be handled expeditiously."

l Menorandun to Director;

Central Intelligence Agency

Attent

• Deputy Director,

Plans, dated 10 June 1964

from Dire

28 3u1y 1967

see te harvey osage

13307

Ma vie of the foreguing factors, tr vourd

-et.

bo appreeiated if you would review materia!

at?.

available to you concerning

_the.activity.or

-Radio Mascon in-an offort-to identify the

two-minute broadcast-referred-to-by OSHALD

in the aforenentioned dacuments...

"Te would also appreciate advice-as to the

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele.

phone number V 36538 was listed in the 1950

Moscow Télephone Directory.

"It would appear to us that lE OSWALD partici.

pazed in a radio program for Radio Moscow, this

fact would have been known to the KGB and a re-

ference to such participation would lixely have

---

## Page 19

'been contained in OSWALD's KGB file.

"fe-would-be-spereciatstsoenout question

VOSENKO In-light-of-the foregoing observations:

In chis-zegard its suggested-that-NOSENKO-nOt

beinformed.ofOSWALD's_possession.of.cheпaл

address, and telephone number of Lev SETYA

Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency; Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans; Subject: Lee HarVeY OSWALD -Internal

socurity Russia Cubai trom Director, FB7.1

Fe."

..=.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

i=..

"The (FBI) supervisor also testified

that he never

tion

"D'

had the opportunity to ques..

•On the morning he arrived"

in

tha Ciltured D' exer 1e ine

Mexican police and denied the supervisor's

repeated requesis to interrogate

'D'. • He

learned that the Mexican police had exhaus-

tively

interrogated

"D' and that he had re-

canted his allegations."

Footnote states that "However, the T3T Mexico

CIty Legat later had access to 'd and interror

gated him.

{V.43}

*Bi The supervisor arrived in Mexico city

Zon 27 November and left on 1 Decenher 1963

;:• Couments:

According. to MEXI -7124,.

28 November 1963, ALVARADO.

Sus turned over to the Mexican Ministry of Government at 1630-

ilashington time an 23 November 196% 245 nove vas made thre

accordance with fil'S request on 28 vovember 1965 to Headquarter

1-089

that the sex tean Chry Station turn ALVARADO over to Mexican autho

(DIR 85663

6 o November 19631

The inferenco of this quate from Book v is that cLi

2 usad obserucera tactics ta prevent the fit supervisar from having

access ta AVARADar the auchers, havexer, do rention, in a feet.

nore that the Legat Attache did lain access to AlVARADO, but this.

tactic does not remove the unspoken allegation from the main body

""jof the text that the CIA had been obstructive.

..The Mexico City Station files show that the Station

and the Legal Attache worked closely together.

¿In fact, DIR 85661, 28 November 1963, tells the

_Station

that Larry KEEMAN from FBI now in Mexiço..

He was

sent especially

to follow up leads on the entire assassination. Headquarters asks

that the Station "cooperate with him fully"

---

## Page 21

14-00000

"On December l; 1963, CIA received infor

mation that a Novenber 22 Cubana airlines

fligh:

from Mexico City to Cuba was delaved

gone fire hours, From Sit DoN. to 11:19 P.r.

E.S.T.,

awaiting an unidertified passenger. (69)

Ihis unidentified passenger arrived-at-the

airport in a twin-engined aircraft at 10:30

Ree and boarded the Cubana airlines plane

without passing through

custons, where no

would have needed to

identife himself br dis-

playing a passport.

The incividual travelled

to Cuba in the cockpit of the Cubana airlines

plane, thus again avoiding raentiftcation by

the passengers. (69]

Footnote- nos.

'68 and 69: Cable

from CIA Head

quarters to Mexico Station, 11/1/63

IV: 60-611

Connen The December 1963 is in errare Also the hours

: #245654227254

eited in the shove parap a not exact i foot

to ä Headouarters

cable datod 1 Decenbor 1963.

alse incerrect.

-÷ed

The cable in question. DIR: 8605

30 November 1963.

#It'reads as-follows:

'Has has feceived-report that on day. of

President Kennedy's as

assassination (22 Nov).

Cubana aircraft delayed its departure Mexico.

- City five hours from 1700 to 2200 awaiting

important passenger who arrived Mexico City

Airport in private twin-motor aircraft at

2130 Hours Mexi tine. Passenger transferred

directly to cuband phane without going through

castons of inmizration: fravetied in pilots

'cabin to Havana,"

Headquarters vent ar co say cise the intonation cone trans

•.=÷

TWULCER diplomat who had been a passenger on the same plane to

Havana. Headquarters asked the stacion to attempt an idencifica

tion and to determine the reason for such unusual actions at the

airport.

The Headquarters cable is included in the OSWALD official file;

and a copy is also in the Mexico Cly Station files. There is no

Indication anywhere that anything was done in response to Head:

quarters' requirements.

midstirin.

•..'

---

## Page 22

14-00000

"On December 3, CIA Headquarters first

received inforsation

from

the Mexico Station

=on a-Cubar Aerican:-According to Passport..

Office recoris, his file there das checked

on-Decenbers-by-a-representative-of-the

CIA.

This CIA representative testified that

ha-could-not-recall-such@chock-or-cho.com

pоге.".

(CIA Liaison Dificer Testimony,

546191233

"On Decembers,-the MexicoStation ca:

bled

that a source saw the Cuban-American

board_a_flight_from Mexico_City_to Havana

reported

that he

'looked suspicious'.

also reported what was then known about his

itinerary.

TV. 30J

Conments

According to a Memorandun for the Record, dated 1ố

cenber 1963,

from Ct/SIC, "It was subsequently determined throug

MES. ROMAN of Liatson, who Checked the Focords of Passport Divie

Sion of the Department under the passport number and name as given

To IN 7261S (eXT 7216] that the subject in this instance Is In

fact a person other than the one cited by the Bureau. The subject

interest-by reason of both name and the number of the passpor

is shown in the Depärtment of State Passport records as Gilberto

POLICARPO Lopez.

On 5 December, the Mexico Station did Cable that

Gilberto LOPEZ "departed as only passenger on Cubana flight on

night 27 November for Havana,"

""Thete was no mention that he."

"looked

suspicious".. This information appears in a Memorandum for the Flles

dated 5 Deceaber 1965, Fron MILlard C. CURTIS, Toes, On 3 December

1963 LITEMPO/4 reported that one Gilberto LOPEZ, U. S. cItizen who-

-arrived In Mexico on 75 Vovember 1965, Tooked suspletough unas

This small point does not, perhaps, mean nuch except to

-ir.

underline-the sloppiness-of the authors of the report in setting

down-the-faces.

-..

?r..

---

## Page 23

14-00000

"102. The evidence alao establianes trat

therawasconfusionas.tarichks. agercu.saa

conducting tre investigation in ilesico.

the isbasados and tintors: +0407497405 citio

in Hasnington beliaved that the P3I vas conducting

tho invootigation in Mesico, the see position

was thai, aithough the 59i dould cooparate, orly

the state bewarent To Co one tote

getting investigative results abroad'. lienoren-

"Сит ЕО А. ВетнопЕ, ТПЧТ/55.Г

"Irorically,

neither tre Legat nor ina Sureau

supervisor sent dour to direct and coordinate the

the investigation' knew diether the State Debortnen:

or the CIA Was

in fact investigating in ilezico.

IV. 40; footnote no. 102.1

Comment: I don't believe this statement. The FBI had the

primary responsibility for the investigation in the United

States and because of the FBI position in Mexico, the Legal

. Attache conducted investigations there; however, he worked

closely with our Station relying upon us for matters which

clearly fell within our responsibility for foreign intelli-

gence.

The inference here is that there was confusion as

to the was running the show, thereby building the zigument

that the EBI and CIL failod to do an adequato investigation

of the assassination.

I'' sure there may have been some shippage but

nothing sertous enough to cause a serious disagreement be-

tween CIA and the fBI.

carmenda.

---

## Page 24

14-00000

"On the same day, a cable listing DDP

HELMS as the rOleGELAgO fier vas dispatored

to CIA stationa in Europe and Canado.

This

ezanina material obtcined from a spacifiad

sensitive and reliable sorce,

"because of

obvious significance of any seras of informa-

thon satch saars on (tirel claasaination issue.

The Desk Officer in charge of the CIA irves-

tigation was unware that suen a message had

been sent out and was at tre time unaware of

sengitive and raliable source mentioned.

[V. 29)

Conment:

The cable in question is DIRECTOR 85133 written

R. T. WALSH, WE/SPO. WH shows on distribution, therefore,

"Desk Officer in charge of the CIA investigation" should

have seen it. He should also have been aware of the

specific source - "Because of obvious significance any scrap

information which bears on President's Assassination desire

addressee stations screen carefully all audio tapes since

22 Novenber 1963 for comments and cable any significant infor-

nation so obtained."

---

## Page 25

:?."At. noon on November 25;-"D', a Latin

American,

appeared at the American Eabassy

in Mexico-City, +35) yet018-Erbassyper

•sonnel that he was in the Cuban consulate

on september-17-and-sak-Cubans-who-discussed

assassination pay Oswald a sun of money.

He

Station chaef. " V.291 to 809-010 Mexic

Station Chief."

Comments:

a.. ALVARADO at no tine appeared at the American

Embassy - some of our own reporting is inaccurate. According

to ALVARADO's interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called

the American Embassy on 25 November "and succeeded in

"é".

_speaking to :

a high official with whom he made an appointment for that same day.

aE 5:50 p.mo near the Hotel Maria Isaber a iva Individuals appear

ed_for the appointment

According to a note in

Fire forecare

station files

dat

5. November - Chese

two men wer

ACC. PLANBECK, both were Entassy secury officers

=bo

During his first seeting with Embassy offic

security officers);

ALVARADo tamed he had been de che cuban

ton

state on the tees of Septembers not the the nee

did be

refer ta the

date is sententer

::Daring the interrogatia

1r6442762-77

connection with the polygraph exaniration on 6 Decerb

ALVARADO revealed he was "unsure of the day Of week allesedly San

.=:.

OSMALD. Thinks that it was on Tuesday Vich would have been

September•" (MEXI-7289 (IN 7553S), 7 December 1963)

Sister?

c. At no time did ALVARADO repeat his story io the

"CiA Mexico Station Chief. AlVARiDo first told his story, astin.

dicated above, on 25 Yovember to two officers of the Embassy Secu.

Irity Office. The next day, in the morning, he met with PLAMBECK

of the Embassy Security offlice, and & Station officer?

During the?

meeting that he evening (26 November), ALVARADO was interrogated by

two officers from the Station:

Note for the Record, dated 25

November 1963, signed by PLAYBECK; Memorandum for ClaTk ANDERSON

Legal Attache, dated 29 Tovember.

1963, from Minston M. SCOTT.1

2023

---

## Page 26

14-00000

ЦТЬ

190?, it war interviewed tutce by BI cgents,

on each oecasion he repeatedly lied.

Be also

anguers to questions of trea vith Societ intel-

Ligence.

2e: the Pel closed the Codilo securisy

case innediataly after the second interviese

The case vas re-opered in More 1363,

Dit OSWALD

365, wen iB requed an interulew arcer hit.

acrestinler_arlechsfar-dis:496:n9-112-02000-

On the occasion of this third intervies, he again

OSWALD visitad Mezico City, wiare he visited both

-tra Groan and Soviet diptomatic estas istments,

and contactad a vice consul as ine latter uno was

in ja0t 0 кG8 agent. "

(V. 4)

Comment:

It is believed that the Soviet official with whom OSWALD

dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933e

In his letter of 9 November 1963 10 the Soviet Consulate

in Haskingion, OSMALD IOte about "his noetings wich Contado KOSTIV

•(sic) of the Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexicol, There is no

official-of the soviet Embassy In Mexico with a rane reseubthig.

"HOSTINe, other than COnsul KOSTIKOV.

KOSTIKOV was the sentor officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related natters. There

is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV is a Soviet State

Security (KGB) officer, and the other four Consular officers were

also known of strongly suspected to be Soviet State Security

parsonnel serving under official cover.

It must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and

security officers placed abroad under official cover normally are

required to perform the routine and legitimate business demanded by.

the cover job in an embassy of consulate.

KOSTIKOV was first spotted as a KGB man because of his

travels around Mexico, his habitual association with known KGB

_officers, and because consuls, in Sakiet practice, are-usually KGB

_Men.

An-intensive review of the files of our Mexico City Station

-was undertaken innediately after the assassination to como out any

previously unreported information about KOSTIKOV's activity. No use-

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ful new infomation bearing upon the assassination resulted frca

this effort.

A close observation was maintained on the Soviet personnel,

KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 November. Nothing unusual

or out-of-pattern was noted in the activity or movements of the

Soviet personnel.

(From a senorandum, dated 31 January 1964, passed I0 La Lee RANKIN

of the Marren Carmission. See X182-22594 (509-803)}

It is also passibla that-OSHALD nay-have-spoken-to-one

other Soviet officar, Consul-Pavel Atonovich YATSKOY. The following

remarks were attributed to YATSKOY in Mexico lity regarding tee

Harvey OSitALi.

-*I met USHALD here. de stormed into my office

and wanted me to introduce and recommend him to the

Cubans:

_te told me that he had lived in the USSr.

I told him that I would nave to check safore I could

recommend him.

de was nervous and his hands trem-

bled, and he starmed out of my affice.

believe that a person as nervous as OSWALD, whose

hands tranbled could ious acourataly firod a rifto,

Our Mexicar Station chocked its records for the period OSWALD vas

in Mexico City and advised it was quite possible that OstALd thougist

he had-tatked with Valeriy KOStIKOt when he. actuatly had spoken to

YATSKOV, or that he first spoke to XOSTIKOV who turned hin over to

his superior YATSKOV.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 2 July 1964, from Richard HEL'S]

According to a memorandum dated 23 May 1975, "There ia

no increment of credible evidence, applying this phrase strictly,

of soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence or security service

involvemant in the assassination to what was developed and consi-

dered by the Warren Commission and its staff. The Commission's jind-

ing that Lee Harvey OSWAlD was the killer of President Kennedy and

officer TIPPIT and did them in alone and of his oun determination

stands.

"'Credible evidence' that would ipsat or significantly

nodify this judgement did land doest not eist in Hasnington, But

such-evidence-could-exiat-in.toco-and/or tetard, those votatary

imputa to the Warren Commission were minimal in quatity and quality,

---

## Page 28

14-00000

desigried to cover up ary admissiona of inouledge of, or connection

with, OsHalD whieh might be related directly or indirecily vith the

assassination. Therefore, the belief that there was Soviet and/or

Cuban (KGB and/or DGI) connection with OSHALD will persist and grow

until there has been a full disclosure by these governmenta of ail

elements of OSMiLd'a ianaling and stay in the Soviet Union and sis

contacts in Marico City. The Harren Commission report should have

left a wider window' for this contingency. That, indeed, has the

epinion at the werking lavel, particularly in the countarintelligeroe

companant in the CIA iN lIEd 1s Was indicated by lA SELlS innio

tootinary before the warren conniesion, ClA vouta vontinat to regerd

this aspeat of the oslAto care us still open. investigation of the

Assassination of Presteent Jolt F. Kehredy. Headrings Before the

President's Commission on the Assasstnation of President Kennedy

. (Washington, 1964), Vol. V., pp. 120-129. See especially p. 124 -

"MT. HELMS: "Yes. I would assume the case could never be closed.""

(Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975 from Raymond G. Rocca;

Subject: Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file Re-

garding Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F.

KENNEDY Assassination.]

stan case too?

---

## Page 29

14-00000

"Shoerly after this meeting with AMLASH, CASTRO

issued a public warhing reported prominently in

tie ".S. press about united Siaies' restinz vich

terrorists who wished to ellainase Cuban leaders,

He threatened that Cuba would answer in kind."

On Saturday evening, 7 Septenber 1963, Fidel CASTRO ap-

peared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in Havana; even more un-

usual, CASTRO submitted to an informal inserview by the Associated

Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER.

HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday, & Septem-

ber, and was in print throughout the country on Monday, I Septem-

ber. There can be no question from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his agreement

to the interviet, that this event representod a more-than ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States.

_CISTRO'S statonents to MARKER covered a range of topies.

but deadt prinelpally with American political leadership, in parti?

eular President KENNeDY, whou he excoriated in extraordinarily pro:

vocative fashion.

The interview also contained an uncomplimentary reference

to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing the limited nuclear

test ban. There were differences in the replay by United States

newspapers like the New York Times and Nashington papers, with a

result that CATSRO's "message" was significantly nodulated.

In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided until the

middle of September 1963, the HARKER story appeared in the principal

morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday, 9 September, page 2a

under a three-column headline: "CASTRO 3lasts Raids on Cuba. Says

Leaders Imperiled by Aid to Rebels". The story fallowed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) = Prime Hinister Fidel CASTRO

said Saturday night: 'U:S. leaders would be in

danger if they helped-in any attempt to do away

with leaders of Cuba'.

"Bitterly denouncing what he called recent

U.S. prompted raids on Cuban territory, Castro

'said:

-'He'are preapred to fighs them and answer

in kind. U.S.

leaders should think that if they

are alding terrorist plans to ellainate Cuban

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Leaders heche selves 111 nos be a tae

encering a nore peaceful climate a few days

az0e bus nox this Ironil bas crazed dica

"'The US is always ready to negottate

and make promises which later it will not

This has sappened-to-pronises mace

during the October crisis.

They have broken

as can be seen trich ner astocks.

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could teaù to a worse

crisis than October's...

The Yew York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, used

a UPI Wire service report which omitted any reference to the warning

and threat which gave the interview its real significance. The-

Washington Post did an abbreviated rewrito (I September, page A 7)

whick, sinilarly, onitted any roferenco to the main thrust-of

GAStRO's remarks,. The Erening Star of Washington, D. C., printed

the HARKER-story nearly in its entirety in the second section of

the paper (9-Septenber 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content of

The HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the political aspects

In particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER elements and burying

. CASTRO's warning to the United States leadership in the middle of

the piece.

There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY assassi-

nation that this CATSRO interview was considered in following up

leads of in dealings with the Warren Commission and its staff al-

though Mexico Station specifically directed Headquarters attention

to the AP story very shortly after the Dallas killing. More impor-

tant, the intervier appears to have been forgotten in the conten-

porary political consideration of relations wich CISIRO's Cuba.

There is no evidence in the Agency records, either, that the Maren-

Commission staff itsolf pursued the implication of tie CASTRO-in-

torview in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was stated

by any other Cuban teader before the assassination.

CASTRO'S warning and threat of I September 1963 - if

OSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered of

great significance in the light of the pathological evolution of

---

## Page 31

14-00000

OSWALD's passive/aggressive nake-up after his attemot to kill

Genera: ¡ALiER eurly in pril isoj and his identification wiii Fidel

CASTRO and the Cuban Revolution which is directly traceable as far

back as his Marine Corps service in El Toro, California. CASTRO'S

warning and threat, given to AP correspondent HARKER, irrespective

of whether there.was_anyforal mandate, or even security service

contact with OsäuLD by the cubans or the Russians was an act of

singular Irresponsibility and under no ciretastances was-excusable

as retorsion for what the Cuban emigres were doing during the

-summer of 1963.

---

## Page 32

14-00000

discussionaf investigative defieiencies and the

failure of Anerican intelligence agencies to in

form the terren fonmission of certain informatic.

does not lead to the conclusion that there was a

stristead, this Report

• places particular

emphasis on the effect their Cuban operations

seemed to have on the investigazion.

"The Report details these operations to illustrate

why they were relevant to the investigation.

the CIA operation involving a high-level Cuban of-

ficial. code-named dilaSH, is described in ordor

to illustrate why that operation, and its possible

ramifications, should nava-seen exarined a5-part of

the assassination investigation."

fret, in the middle of building its argument, the conmittee statos

- that "However, the Committee cautions that it has seen no evidence

that-Fidel. CAsTRO or others in the cuban government plotted Presi-

"tent Kennedy's assassination in tetaltation for U.S. operations

against Cuba. ")

---

## Page 33

14-01100

'The Committee did not attempt to duplicate the

rark.aEthejaren.Connission.Itdid.ncz.revien

the findings and conclusions of the Warren Conni-

ssiana It did rat re-cranine the physical evi.

dence which the Warren Commission had."

Comment: This adrission is astounding, particularli by a senate

committee reportedly investigating the assassination of Prosident

John F. Kennedy. The remark is obviousty not quite cortect, for

the Conmittee aust have read the Report for they refer to it from

time to time; sowever, they probably did not read the supporting

documents.

i get so si.

---

## Page 34

14-011100

..

....

.....

--

(4) Identify and describe the records with regard to this

activist.

The material relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD (internal

Agency documents, reports to and fron other government agencies

and departments, correspondence with the Warren Comnission, etc.)

• is held in the Agency's official file on OSWALD. The official

• file no. 201-289248 is held by the CI Staff and comprises 57 ..

volumes, i.e., well over 200 separate file folders and envelopes.

In addition to the official file, there are ancillary files

covering various aspects of the investigation and later develop-

ments - FOIA requests for information, docurents (copies) cleared

for release in response to such requests, the Rockefeller Con-

mission, etc.

A machine index of the material held in the official file

reaches a total of 1829 doeuments-or entries. There is some

duplication and ommissions. It is noti possible to tell from

the machine index the subject of many of the documents, particu-

larly cables, nor is it possible to ascertain the origin.of

many of the documents appearing under those entries marked

• =

XAAZ-.

See the attached list of files and folders revieved to

tato

-

---

## Page 35

14-00000

=..

Components of Official File on Lee Harvey OSWALD

1.

2:

3.

4.

5.

6.

Vol. 1 Part 1, Undated through 31.10.63

Vol. 1

Part 2, 1.11 - 25.11.63

Vol. 1

TX-1855, undated

Vol. 1

WX-7241, undated

Vol. 1

XAAZ-35909, undated

Vol. 2

26.11.63

Vol. 2

TX-1891, 26.11.63

8.

Vol. 3

Part 1, 27.11 - 28.11.63

9.

Vol. 3

Part 2, 29.11 - 30.11.63

10. Vol. 3

Part 3, 1,12 - 2.12.63

11. Vol. 3 DBA-63710, 30.11.63

12. Vol. 3

DBA- 63711, 2.12.63

•13. Vol. 4

3.12.63

14. Vol. 5

4.12 - 7.12.63

•15. Vol. 5

XAAZ-35716, 6.12.63 Part 1

16. Vol. 5 XAAZ-35716, 1.12.63 Part 2

17. Vol. 6

8.12 - 9.12.63

÷18. Vol. 6

DBA-16200, 8.12.63

19. Vol. 7

10.12.63

20. Vol. 8

10.12.63

21. Vol. 8 DBB-11140, 10.12.63

22.

Vo1. 9

10.12.63

23.

Vol. 10 11.12 - 20.12.63

24. Vol. 10 XAAZ-27165, 20.12.63

25.

Vol. 11

20.12.63

26. Vol. 12

20.12.63

•27.

Vol. 13

20.12.63

28.

Vol. 14

23.12.63

29.

Yol. 15

23.12.63

•30.

Vol. 16

23.12.63

....

.. ..........

-----..-

---

## Page 36

14-00000

31. Vol. 16 DBB-15706, 23.12.63

32.

Vol. 17 23.12 - 31.12.63

33.

Vo1. 17 XAAZ-35713, 31.12.63

34.

Vol. 18 1.1.64

35. Vol. 18 DBB-11126, 1.1.64

36.

Vol. 19

2.1 - 6.1.64

37. Vol. 20 7.1.64

38.

Vol. 21

7.1.64

39. Vol. 22 7.1 -22.1.64

40. Vol. 22 XAAZ-22407, 21.1.64

41. Vol. 23 22.1.64

42. Vo1. 24 23.1 - 10.2.64

43.

Vol. 24 XAAZ-22409, 25.1.64

44. Vol. 24 XAAZ 22409, 25.1.64

45. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22410, 25.1.64

46. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22411, 5.2.64

47i Vol. 24 XAAZ-22412, 5.2.64

48. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22413, 8.2.64

49. Vol. 24 XAAZ-35908, 2.64

•50. Vol. 25 11.2.64

51. Vol. 26 12.2. - 24.2.64

52. Vol. 26 XAAZ 22408

: 22.1.64

53.. 1o1.27 25.2.64 -9.3.64

54. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22414, 28.2.64

55. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22415, 28.2.64

56.

Vol. 27 XAAZ-22595, 6.3.64

57.

Vol. 28 10.3.64

58.

Vol. 29

10.3.64

59.

Vol. 30

11.3 - 13.3.64

60.

Vol. 31

26.3.64

....

-.....-——.

+

---

## Page 37

4-00000

•3 ..

61. Vol. 31 XAAZ-22450, 17.3.67

62. 101.32 25.3-31.3.64

63. Vol. 32 XAAZ 22416, 26.3.64;

•64. Y01.33 1.4-7.4.64

•65. Vol. 33 XAAZ-22417, 6.4.64

•66. Vol. 34

8.4 - 20.4.64

.67.

Vol. 35 21.4 - 30.4.64

68. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22418, 21.4.64

.69. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22419, 24.4.64

:70. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22420, 29.4.64

:71. Vol. 36 1.5 - 11.5.64

:72. Vol. 36 EX-10877, 5.5.64

:73. Vol.

36 XAAZ-22421, 6.5.64

74. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22422, 8.5.64

•75• Vol. 37 12.5 - 18.5.64

76. Vol. 37 XAAZ-35714, 15.5.64

77. Vol. 38 19.5 - 27.5.64

:78. Vol. 38 XAAZ-35610, 21.5.64

79.

Vol. 38

XAAZ-35827, 20.5.64

80. Vol. 38 XAAZ-27210, 21.5.64

81. Vol. •39

28.5.64

82. Vol. 40 28.5.64

83. Vol. 41 28.5.64

84.

Vol. 42 28.5.64

85.

Vo1. 43 29.5 - 1.7.64

,86.

Vol. 43

XAAZ-22423, 3.6.64

187.

Yol. 44

2.7.64

•88.

Vol. 45 2.7.64

89.

Vol. 46

3.7= 11.8.64

90.

Vol. 46 XAAZ-22425, 22.7.68

.....

---

## Page 38

14-00000

—...

-91. VOl. 46 XAAZ-22427, 31.7.64

--92.

Vo1. 47 5.8.64

-_ 93..

Vol. 48.6.8 -31.8.64

.94.

Vol. 48

XAAZ-22428, 7.8.64

.95.

Vol. 48

XAAZ-22429, 29.8.68

.96.

Vol. 49

1.9 - 18.9.64

.97.

Vol.

49

XAAZ-22430, 9.9.64

.98.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22431, 10.9.64

99.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22432, 10.9.64

100.

Vol.

49

XAZ- 28433, 10.9.64

101.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22434, 10. 9.64

102.

- -

Vol.

49

XAAZ-22435, 10.9.64

103. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22436, 10.9.04

104.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22437, 11.9.64

105.

Vol. 4g

XAAZ-22438, 11.9.64

106.

Vol. 49

XRAZ-22439, 11.9.64

107.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22440, 11.9.64

-..

108.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22441, 18.9.64

109.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22442, 18.9.64

110.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22443, 18.9.64

11i.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22444, 18.9.64

112.

Yol. 50 19.9.64

i13. Vol. 51 2i.9. - 25.11.64

114. VO1: 51 XAAZ-22944, 22.10.64 (Press reaction to Narren

Commission Report]

115. Vol: 5ë 2T.1i - 31.12.64

-.=

116. Vol. 52 XAAZ-22598, 25.11.64 ("Unidentified Individual" -

- incomplëte)

117. Vol. 52 XAIZ-35722, 12.64 [Master List of Warren Connission

• correspondence and exhibits) (Unclassified)

18.

Vo1. 52. XAIZ-35723, 12.64 [Warren Commission Log Book] •

(Unclassified)

19.

Vol. 53 1.65 -5.66

---

## Page 39

14-00000

•.

120. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22419, 5.5.65 (State Department file) ---

121. No1. 55 X45-22149, 5.5.65 1131 Investigation Report and

• Exhibits)

122. Vol. 55 XWZ-22$51, 5.5.65 (Copies of FBI documents,

Iteas 1-40)

123. VO1.53 XLAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Copies of FBI documents,-

• Iteas 41-181)

-. .

124.

. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 1 - duplicate]

125. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 2 - duplicate]

126. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22453, 5.5.05 (Copies of. FBI documents, -

_Items 182-187]

127. VoI. 53_ XAAZ-22454, 5.5.05 [News clippings]

128.-

Vol. 53 XAAZ-22943, 23.3.65 (Part. 1, News clippings)

129..

Vol.

53

XAAZ 22943, 23.3.65_ (Part 2, News clippings].

130.

Vol. 53

XAAZ-27164, 2.2.05 (DDP's file on Warren Connis-

sion]

-

131.

Vol. 53

SX-24316, 2.8.65 (SE Division soft filel

132.

Vol. 54

6.66 - 4.67

133.

Vol. 54

DCE -18035, 30.7.65 (Part 1)

134.

Vol. 54

DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 2]

135.

Vol.

54

DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 3)

136.

Vol.

55

1.5.67 - 10.67

137. Yol. 55

XAAZ-22560, 10.7.67

138. Vol. 55

XAAZ-35715, 19.5.67

139. Vol. 56 1.11.67 - 30.12.71

i40.

Vol. 56

TX-1942,

15.3.68

141.

Vol. 56 XAAZ-27163, 17.11.67

142.

Vo1. 57, 1.1.72.

-1-

---

## Page 40

14-00000

• ADDITIOYAL FILES:

Title

HTLINGUAL Memoranda SIG 568

HTLINGUAL (clippings, etc.)

OSWALD, SIG 568

CI Special Project

Record of Action - Warren Connission

SIG 950

No, of vols.

2

1

4

-1.

DDP's File (Correspondence to and from

Warren

Conmission) (duplicate)

1

Rocca's files (primal)

NOSENKO handling

Dealings with Warren Comnission -

HOCH Letter

....

.1...

.2

CASTRO Interview, ? September 1963

----

1

Mexico Chrono Record

Unidentified Individual Report

----+=

Unnaned file

1

2

Rockefeller Connission; notes re-

garding Warren Coznission

Mexico City Station Files

6

------

Crumicsion)

a stati live (Rocca-Martern).

- _3.

Master File Released Documents

(FOIA)

-Ist series (released 2/3 1975)....

File

(copies) of Released Documents

(FOIA)

Second Series

Released September 1976

10

---

## Page 41

(3) What Collection requirements were issued to the field with

regard to Kennedy's assassination?

As soon as the name of Lee OSKALD was mentioned in connection

with the assassination of President Kennedy On 22 November. CIA

-

file checks were begun and the Mexico City Station was asked by

cable for more information on OSWALD. Nithin a week. twenty-seven

cabled reports had been sent to the white House, the Department of

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investization.

. CIA field stations provided bizs of infornation during the

week after the assassmation. The Mexico City Station reviewed we

transeripts of tes telephone taps and came up with several more

conversations probably taxalring asship, but nor accually mention

ing him by names these transcripts connected han also to the cuban.

Consulate In Mexico City. Several Mexicans were arrested and t

questioned about his activities, giving a good picture of what he

was really up to.. A host of fabricators, 'some anonymous, bombarded

overseas embassies with spurious tips on the case. All of these -

leads were soon

...

discredited, but they were still coming in.

In light of OswAlls selection to the Soviet Union where he

had rematued for ahrost three years and his trip to Mexico cry

where he had contact with ambers of the cuban and soviet cont

sulates, the possibility that OSWAlD had not acted upon his out.

but aay have been an agent in a plat under foreign direction could

not be dismissed vithout exhaustive exploitation af all available

foreign assets.

As the Agency responsible for the collection of foreign coun

terintelligence information, it.was the Agency's responsibility

to support the Federal Bureau of Investigazion in its'investigation

of the President's assassination by.

obtaining detailed information on every aspect of OSVALD's

activities and novements abroad;

bo. Studying this information in light of the Agency's know.

ledge of the mission and operations of foreign intelligence

services - particularly the cuban and soviet services, and

---

## Page 42

==

C.: Making available to the FBI and other appropriate govern

ment agencies and depariments, all information obtained on

OSWALD of pertaining to his contacts with Cubar and Sovier

officials and organizations abroad.

Set out belou are those actions taken by the Agency atter

Jearning the identity.of the assassin and during the weeks imedi

atoly following-tha Prosidens costi

Specific Action Taken by the Agency

On the same day as the assassination, 22 Novenber 1965, The

Deputy Phrector, Plans, Richard HELMS, sent a cable bout message.

to 011-GhA Stations abroad,

-HELMS stated that the "tragic de

of President Pennedy requires all of us to look sharp for any una

165-2-2"

usual intelligence developments. Although we have no reason. to

expect anything of a particular military nature, all hands should

be on the quick alert at least for the next few days while the new

President takes over."

DIR 84608)

=.

On 22 November, the Chief of Wh/S, in response to an earlier

cable from Mexico City in which the latter directed Headquarters"

attention to previous traffic relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD MEXT-

7014. (IN 66781), 22 Yovember 19631, asted the Station to fortow and

report on soviet Embassy sctivity and reaction "during these hours

(DIR 81902}

Or 23 November, (I Staff requested the Mexico City Station re

revier all audio tapes and transcripts since 27 September to locate

naterial possibly pertinent to OSWALD. (DIR 84886. in reference to

MEXI - 6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1963.)

On the sane day, Chief, NH/3, asked Mexico City Station to

cable verbatim transcripts in English of all OSNALD intercepts and

other material relating to hin. (DIR 84914)

'On 24 November, Chief, #H/3, asked the Mexico. City Station's.

opinion as to why OSWALD was in Mexico in September-October 1963.

[DIR 84920)

On 25 November: Chief, iH/3, asked Mexico Chey Starlon to

---

## Page 43

.. •10 ..

cable a suanary of all the Station's infornazion relating to Silvia

• DURAY Mexican emplovee of the Cuban Consulate, lexico Ciiy).•

(DIR 34925]

On the same day, Chief, ii/3, asked the Mexico City Station

for any information indicating tha: iSrald may nave entered lexico

at any time other that during the period 26 Septenter to S October.

fDIR-81938)

ór 26 Novenber 1963, Headquarters sent a prierity cable ta

Brussels, Copenhagen, Helsinki, London, Madrid, Oslo; Ottawa,

Paris, Rome, and The Hague requesting station and liaison traces ön

Lee Harvey OSWALD. (DIR 85133)

Ow -28 November, 1963, Chief, WH/3, stressed in a gable to the

Mexico City_Station that "there should be no let down in your ef-

, fort ta follow all leads and investigate all facts which bear on

this case. We have by no neans excluded the possibility that

other 35- yet arkown persons way have been invotred of even that

other powers pay have played a rosa chigt mis aded che reques

"Please continue all your coverage of sariet and Cuban installa-

tions and your Taison with Mexicans. * (DIR 85655j

On"29 November, Headquarters forwarded a book cable to

Copenhagen, Helsinki, London, Osto, and The Hague, which included

---

## Page 44

14-00000

------

-..

.-.=

-... ..

--

-

a synopsis for COS background briefings to assist in the evalua-

tion of any operational leads generated by the investigation.

(DIR 85817)

_ ... A second cable was sent out on the same day_to Frankfurt

and The Hague asking for evidence of travel of Lee OSWALD and his

Russian-born wife during their return to the United States during

May and June 1962. (DIR 85973]

On 2 December, headquarters sent a priority cable to Ber-

jin, Bonn, Frankfurt, and The Hague asking for confiratory infor

mation relating to the travel of OSWALD, his wife, and oldest

child on their return from the Soviet Union (in 1962) to the

United States. (DIR 86077).

On 12 December 1963, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Star

tion to continue to watch for Soviet and Cuban reaction to tir

investigation of the President's assassination, evidence of their

complicity, and signs that they were putting out propaganda about

— the case. Mention was made that Soviet intelligence officers in

.. India had letters sent to American leaders demanding a full in- -

vestigation of the assassination. (DIR 88680)

=----------

---

## Page 45

: (2) What follow-up of these requirements was there during 1964p-i

-(3) What form did the follow-up take?"

The initial responsé to headquarters' requirements levied

on the field, after the assassination of the President, has been

treated under Question (1) abore. As this information was received!

in Headquarters it was conpared with existing infornation, if any;

synthesized, analyzed, and then made available to the White House,

the Departuent of State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Copies of these dessmentations were also forwarded to the Secret

Serrice.

Hoadquartors

canined as new leads sent in by the field, at

fering suidance

and, when necessary, coordinatine with the appro-

priate United States government agency prinarily the fBi Sher

the investigation involved an American citizen.

Most; Fe not ali,

leads originating in the field were persons claining to have nov-

Ledge of OSWALD of his wife. Investigation revealed that the

majority of these leads vere fabricators.

--:

In light of the urgency of the investigation being conducted

By the pET, all correspondence between Agency Headquarters and tes

stord inits was in cable formi lenecessary, sessages could bo

passed by tolephone."

Agency field representatives in the lexico City Station and

the "lant Base Marked closely with the lecal EBI representative

keeping the latter continually apprised of all information pertain-

Ing to the invescigation as it becane avaiíable sa cia stasion.

The Mexico City Station and Miami Base were able to respond immedi

ately to requirements levied by the local FBI representative:. The

field reported to Headquarters on all information passed in the

field to the FBI-OT-received from the FBI representative so that

•Headquarters could make a formal dissemination to the appropriate

government agency of departuent in Washington.

---

## Page 46

т.".

(5) What reporting was there from the field in response to Head-

quarters' requirements?

SECTION I

Responses to the cables listed under question (1) above are

given below under each cable.

DIR 84608, 22 November 1963

Response:

On 23 November the London Station stated that Head:

quarters' alert had been passed to the British services - MI-S and

NI-6. The latter service told our London Station it was alerting:

Its field stations. (IUND-6058 (IN 67061))

Conment. This response mas the onty one which specifically

made reference to DIR S1608; however, the latter

cable undoubtedl?

2÷52

sparked Headquarters conponents, Headquarters personnel on TDY.

abroad, and field units to react immediately. Examples are to be

found in a separate section to this question.

DER 31936 25 vovember 1963

Responses Mexica cley station sent three cables

23 seven

ber containine the texts of seven telephone

e calis believed to be

-..=

relative to OSWALD." (Later it was determined that two of the

-265

telephone calls believed to have been made by OSWALD had been

made by some other unidentified person.). (MEXI-7023 (IN 67108).

MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), and MEXI 7033 (IN 67232).1

DIR S1911, 23 VaKember 1963

Responsei The three cables cited above nay be considered as

*

a response to this cable.

• 2-

DIR 84920, 27 November 1963

€533

Response: The only/source of Informatton on the reasons far

OstaLD's trip to exico city vas silvia DURAl, a Mexican employee

of the cuban Consulato, who was detained on 25 vovember and ques.

tioned by lexican authorities from 23 sa 25 Novenber.

Herica City

Stacion had already alerted Headquarters to DIRty's arrest and had

forwarded infarmation la several cables, parsicularly vEx-1016

---

## Page 47

.'+.

-.

on 24 November 1963. Mexico City responded to DIR 34920 with

-*.

MEXI-705$ on 24 November 1963. This cable contained, additions

or arendments to MEXI-7046: (In addition to information obia red

fros Silvia DURAV contained in her file, see also the revicw of

selected itens in the lee Harvey OSWALD file regarding allegations

of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in tie John I. Kennedy assassina

tion, dated 2348y-1975-)

DIR 84926, 25 Yovember 1963

Response:. Mexico City Station cabled all Station held infor

mation regarding SIlvIa DURAN In MEXI-7OoS.

DIR 84938, 25 November 1963

==

DIR 85155, 26 November 1965

a. On zi Noveuber, Helsinki reported on ÖsWilDes presence in

Helsinki from 10 to 15 October 1959. (HELS-2292 (IN 68739)}

hi On 27 Navenber, Rome reported on Station traces: liaison

traces were to folloi. TROME-1233 (IN 68802)J

2; 75

-==

=:

005513-15-

---

## Page 48

14-00000

...

-..-

c. On 27 November, Ottawa reported no traces in Station

or liaison files. [OTTA 1275 (IN 69005)]

d. On 27 November, Copenhagen forwarded a negative report

[COPE 3469 (IN 69011))

e. On 27 November, London Station reported that the "Traf-

fic Index" showed that OSWALD had arrived in Southampton on 9

October 1959; he left the following day by air for Helsinki.

.....-

(LOND 6097 (IN 69100)]

f. On 27 November, Ottawa Station sent a second cable con-

taining information on the initial reaction of the Cuban Ambassa-

dor CRUZ and his staff to the report of the assassination. "After

further information was received (by the Cubans) that OSWALD had

connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Connittee, there was some

apprehension concerning !ossible United States reaction.

COTTA 1277 (IN 69233))

g. On 27 November, Oslo Station cabled a response that

there were no traces on OSWALD in Station or liaison files.

[OSLO 4490 (IN 69290)]

h. On 28 NOvenber, the Madrid Station replied that

there

was no information in Station or liaison files. (MADR 9789 (IN.

69328)1

1. On 29 November, the Brussels Station stated there were

no traces on OSWALD. (BRUS 8739 (IN 69852)}

j. On 29 November, the Rome Station reported no liaison

trces on OSWALD. (ROME 1258 (IN 70111)]

k. On 5 December, the Paris Station reported that Station

and liaison traces were negative. [PARI 1770 (IN 74234)]

On 10 December, the Paris Station reported that the

French press was giving sensational coverage to the possibility

that the assassination was "a many-angled plot". (PARI 1853 (IN

77148))

DIR 85817, 29 November 1963

DIR 85973, 29 November 1963

!

---

## Page 49

DIR 86077, 2 December 1963

a. On & December, the Bonr. 3as= forra-ded inforiation regar-

ding Marina OSWALD's entry into Germany at Helastedt on 3 June 1962:

She left Germany the same day at Benthein. Marina OSiVALD was tra-

veting on a test German visa 7o, 895102, Issued by the vest German

Embassy in MOScOW, (BONY 5579(14-7333271 terpies of the documents

referring ta Varina ostal vere farrarded to liedquarters as in vee

tachment to EGNT-1400, 9 December 1963.

b. On 6 December, the Munich Base cabled a negative reply.

(MUNI-9316 (IN 75065)]

.. On 4 December, The Hague Station cabled information that

Marina) OSWALD entered the Netherlands on 3 June 1962 at the old-

jenzal border point:

(HAGU-5110 (IN 73378)1

d. On December, the Stutgart Base replied that the Base

tra do contator tonation catating to ostates travels forus

S515 (IN-76758)}

-SECTION II

In addition to specific action taken by the Agency as given

above: Headquarters components, Headquartars persomel on foX, and

jeld units reacyed as shown below

^ On 22 November, Noxico city station directod Headquartars

attention ta previous traffic relating to lee Harvey OSWALD and

asked for a photograph of OSWALD in order to compare it with aväil-

able photographs in the Station which might be of the assassin. "The

Station indicated that it was forwarding as soon as possible copies

of a photograph of the only visitor to the Soviet Embassy on 28 isic

- 1) October who could (might] by identical with OSWALD. IMEXI-

7014 (IN 66781)]

A subsequent cable sent the same day from Mexico City indica-

ted that the Station had photographs of the sane unidentified Ameri.

can (referred to in the above cable) who is possibly OSWALD entering

the Cuban Embassy on 15 October.. [EXI-7019 (1V 66846)]

b. On 22 November, the Agency's Stazion in Miami reporzed

---

## Page 50

that OSWALD of the Fair Play for,Cuba Conmittee had participated in

¡ a debate in August 1963 on the lew Orleans radio station, MoSU.

OSWALD was a former Marine who had gone to Moscow in 1959 where he

renounced his Anerican citisenship. (WAVE: (IN (IN 56782)!:.

.C. On 23 Novenber, the Chief, SR/CI forwarded a memorandun

to the Assistant Deputy Director, Plans, in which the latter's atten

thon as d7avst0 the fact that oSwaLd had been in contact on_ 28

September 1963 with Soviet Consul Valeriy Vladinirovich KOSIIKOV

According to current information available to SR/CI. KOSTIKOV was a

known KGB officer ard considred to be a menber of the KGB's Thir-

(sabotage and assassination)

teenth Departnent/of the First Chief Directorate. According to the

FBI L1aison officer the FBI had reason to believe that OSHALD's

visit was. to get Soviet support for a United States

s passport of visa

matter: Chief, SR/CL closed by saying that he had reported OSWALD'S

connections with a known member of the Thirteenth Department to the

FBI liaison officer at 1030 hours on 25 November 1963.

(Memorandan for ADDP, 23 November 1963 (file n0. SX?5550)1.

:.÷:

di Or 23 November, the Mexico City Station forwarded to Head?

quarters the names of three persons who had flown from Mexico to thei

United States, during the first twelve days of November, who might

have been identical with Lee Harvey OSWALD. " [MEXI-7020 (IN 66891) I

•e. On 24 November, the Mexico City Station reported to Head-

quarters that the United States Consulate in Nuevo Laredo had

infor-

mation that OSWALD had entered Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on 26 Septem-

ber traveling on Mexican Tourist Card no. 24085 and had left Mexico

by auto (sic] on 3 October.

1963 at Nuevo Lazedo: (NEXI-7040-(IN

67261)) - ý:

7. On zi vovember, the chiet, sR/CI, forwarded a memorandum

to the Assistant Depauty Director, Plans, lu which he quoted a cable

sont by chief, se ortston, who was at that the to frankens

The latter asked the question if ostAld as not unwittingly or

wittingly a part of a plot to nurder the president in Dallas as an

attempt to exacerbite further sectional sizife and render che laited

States Governent lass capable of dealing with sovter tuittatives

.E.

'ini rid tria join to do inies

---

## Page 51

over the next year. The Chief of SR continued by suggesting that

'if MELADLE's (Anatoliy Michaylovich GOLITSY!) views on (Harold)

WILSOY and the information noted in paragraph 1c below have any

substarce (and they cannoz be ignored), this suggests that we can

expect major Soviet pressures over the next several months, for:

which the soviets have mace careful, for range preparations.

-Paragraph-hai

"Vithin ninutes of the first news, Moscar radia

statements as heard in London attributed the assassina-

tion to 'right-wing elements'. Only as the true iden

tity of the believed assassin becane known did Moscow

begin to complain that United States reactionaries

'were using OSWALD, as a pawn."

Paragraph lb:

-Should not the assignment of Ista Departuent officers

to the KGB Residency in the thited Nations in New York.

Do considerod in a new Light?"

•Paragraph ice

-"I discovered from Arthur MARTIN-MI-S) -during our

. long and exceptionally valuable discussions, that

ono of Harold NILSON's principal scientific.advisers

¿1s Captain Ian MAXWELL, who has a long Soviet intelli-

gence background. This may shed new light on AELADLE'S

report, 1.e., that Harold WILSOY aay be a Soviet agent."

Chief, SR/CI, pointed out that the SR Chief's comments cone

without benefit of traces passed earlier to the ADDP sowing that

OSALD had contact with a 13th Department representative in Mexico-

Caty. Chiet, sk/cI, ended by indicating that another recently ar:

rived cable suggests that OSKALD's business with the Soviet. Consul

was connected with his owe vist to the ussk and tube and may ot

therefore, have been !., innocent. (Memorandar for ADDP!

21 November 1963 (filo 10- SX-25593)}

8. On 28 Voxenber, the Asency's Station in Miami reparted

Infamation received fron the Locat FBI representative: The latter

---

## Page 52

ad received a request from his Headquarters to ascertain the vera-.

city, including sources, of a statement made by DRE leader, Jose".

ILANUSA Gobel, to the effect that Fidel CASTRO had threatened lives

of United States leaders in the event of United States aggression

agatrist caba. INUsA attituted the above tireats to fidel castio

Who made these remarks during a reception in early September 1963.

at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. (AVE-8133 (IN 62394)}

h.: On 25 November 1963, the Mexico City Station also called

Headquarters! attention tO an AP story datelined Havana, i September

1963.

At a reception held at the Brazilian Embassy, CASTRO is

quoted as haveing. said: "Ve are prepared to fight them and answer

in kind.

United States leaders shouldthink [sic consider ?) that

if they are aiding terrorists plans to eleminate the Cuban leaders

hey thense yes will not de safe.

•TMEXI-7055. IN 67620)T

-÷:

---

