# 104-10150-10158

## Page 1

104-10150-10158.696

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LIGENCE AGENCY

She Malo

th

eNING 010

DISSEN

COUNTRY

SUBJECT.

TLAND/USSR

NIS BY ALEKSEY: ADZHUBEY

TEAL AND SOVIET BLOC

REPORT NOW

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES.

REFERENCES

CS

15 JANUART 1,354

DATE OF

INFO. W

NOVA BER

11963

UPLACE &

BANGKOK

DATE. ACQU

DECLA

LAThIS IS

UNEVA

SOURCE

EARLY

1064) FIELD REPORT NO. FEB 7675]

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS MENTA,

A' EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN (B) WHO HAS OCCASIONAL CLOSE CONTACT UTIE

L SOVIET BLOC TRADE AND GOVERNMENT OFF ICIAIS

MAN OF ICIAL, THAI SERVICE. WIS

17 d

AIDAL; OF CONTENT:

* ADZHUBBY PROBABLY MADE THE COMMENTS AS REPORTED.

PURING A RICOPTION AT TIC"SOVIST MBASSY, ALISEY ADZHUSEX

RIS GOVERN-ENT'S ERROR IN OVEREMPHASIZING INDUSIRY MT PEE EXFIASE

PURE HE URGES THE SOVIEL DIPLOMATIC COMMUNITY TO DICREASE IT

AST WHETHE THAT PEOPLENTY ORDER TO MPROVE, REPORTING ON LOCAL

FIONS MADZHUGLY FELT THRTHAIS SHOULD KVOW THE SOVIETS BOTTER 200.

SAD SE 42O, CONTO AND NATO ARE USELESS,

SAMEEL AS LAOS,

THAT THERE IS TROUBLE IN

," AND THAT TAILAND SHOULD LEAVE THE CRITA PRESLEY

USSR. LATER COMMENTIS BIADZHUBEY TO PRIME MINISTER THANOM AND

ECUMINISTER THANAT ON POOR PRESS COVORAGE OF SOVIET EVERVES, ARE MENTIONID

53561,770

RECEPTION GIVRY IN HIS HONOR AT THE SOVISI EMBASSY,

1963, ALEKSEA ADZAUBEX,

BANGKOE:

"IZVESTITA EDITOR AND KHRUSHCHE SI

IN LAY

DELIVERED A SPRECH TO SOVIET BLOC REPRESENTATIVES WHO TAD, 201:

RID TO STAY AFTER THE RECEPTION.

'ADZHUBEY EXPRESSED DEEP PERSONAL' A D

OTAL REGRETAT THE DEAL OF PRESIDUVY KENNEDY AND AULOCIZSDES TRUS

BESEN NORLD TENS ION.

THE GOVERNMENT HAD,

CONCERNLNG TELE SOVIET UNION, ADZHUBEY SIT DO

ERRED/ IN PLACING TOO GREAT AN EMPFASIS ON S7ML3

PENT WITH TOO LITIZE TOUCHI OR OFFORT FOR THE AGRICULTRA

OF IRE: POPULATION.

1ES LUD TO TRE SHORTAGE OF WREAT IT PANI

FOOL IN GENERAL.

ADZHUBE, IMPRASIZED AT MENBERS UE TEN SON dY

AND MORE COMPREHENSIVE

REPORTING ON LOGAL CONDITICHS

PRE-STAIED, THAT SOM CONTACIS MAY NOT 'AGREE WIES

PHITOSOPHY THEPLILARE MANY OTHDR AREAS ON WATCE 29

TEN SOVIETS SEOULD TEA

MORE ABOUT PHAILAND, - BUT TI

TOR WIE THAI TO KNOW

OSE SOVINS BETTER.

32045.

PUB

---

