# 104-10181-10099

## Page 1

104-10181-10099

5/2017

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHNE. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Not.

in Bex

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10181-10099

RECORDS SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : [No From]

TO : [No Tol

TITLE : [RESTRICTED]

DATE : 01/01/0000

PAGES : 38

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : UNIT ID

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/21/1998

COMMENTS : JFK64-17 : F18: 1998.03.21.10:31:39:436107:

38 WHITE

BANDED PAGES.

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

https://www.archives.gov/scripts/starfinder.exe/246936/jfksnew.txt

1/1

---

## Page 2

Ci./CC0/ops

1325

15.1170 -

SHORTT

tree

ieruartg....

(pics).

119119

SECREI

182? 2321110

CITE DIRECTOR

PRECORD DO DASE LOS MUGGLES TINO ROGERIE WAARNED 3 5 17 1

TRIC AUTO

1. PLS DETECHIGE ASAP BIRGICAL DESCRIPITON AND

COGURATION OF MANUAL (VIGOS) DIREZ, 935 DRACO AVENUE,

ARCENT 1O, 105 ANGULES, APRARDATLY NO CELESRONG. VIGOS

WENE LOS ARGELES FRCH TITAN I CARLY MARCH.

2. FILE: 201-735296.

THED

END OF MESSAGE

IN CONDID: Baocd on Madaid 1131 (IN 093909) recusat that

access encor of tilla be given nuch lacozcacle, cbout Subjout

ao posoible for saie of approich to Cubun cargot in Madrid.

121

JCOLNH TULIK

• C/nJ/1/81

US COPY

JALES E, FLANIERY

C/WH/COC

P0T3SNŸE

14m2, 20"

S D

CR

E T

---

## Page 3

SLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

EN/UNIT NOTIFIES

ANCE CORY

ISSUES

SHOT 1A

2ENA $ 241

TEN UNIT

FER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SOTAL COFISS S

SECRET

When Files to done a vou

FEPRODLETION DE THIS CORY PROMIBITED

INDEX:

Dres

CLASSIFY TO ES FILENO

X-ASE TO CE FILENO.

FILE RID

DETURN TE

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

FILE, VR

TICA

SECRET 191224Z MAY 70 CITE MADRID

RIeN

, EURG, DDP, ADDP, AL, CIlORS, CIlOA, FIZ

1131

MADR

TGMAYIN085999

DIRECIOR, WA/MIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 233355

la WE BELIEVE IHAT CHANCE ENCOUNTER WITH AMAUTO- 1

ALONE TOO DIFFICULT TO ARRANGE SINCE AMAUTO-1 IS

FREQUENTLY IN COMPANY SOMEONE FROM HIS STAFF OR HAVING

LUNCH WITH SPANISH OFFICIALS OR BUSINESSMENE. MOREOVER,

ENCOUNTER UNDER THIS SITUATION, WE FEEL, WOULD NOT PERMIT

RELAXED EXCHANGE BEIWEEN SAMKO AND AMAUTO-I WE WOULD

LIKE TO SUGGEST FOLLOWING ALTERNATIVE:

A. ON ARRIVAL SPAIN VIA AERONAVES DE MEXICO

FLIGHT 450 LEAVING MIAMI FRIDAY SAMKO WOULD GO DIRECILY

TO HOTEL OF STATION SELECTION. STATION OFFICER WILL ALSO

OCCUPY HOTEL IN ALIAS AND INITIAL CONTACT WITH SAMKO WILL

BE MADE IN HOTEL. CINCIDENTALLY, BELIEVE NO NEED

PACHANKIS ACCOMPANY SAMKO TO MADRID.)

Ba EARLY SUNDAY AFTERNOON SANKO WOULD GO DIRECTLY

TU AMALTO-I'S PRIVATE RESIDENCE. MIS EXCUSE WILL BE

THAT HE WOULD HAVE GONE TO EMBASSY BUT WAS CERIAIN THAT

BA-

A COPY

SECRET

19May 70

30% 935246

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PAC:

IMBESUY MOULE BE CLOSETE IN AUDITION, SINCE SAMKO

SCHEDULED TOUR CE GALAID AND SUBURSE LEAVING EARLY

OHHY MORNING DECIPE MAKE CEFORT CONTACT SMAUTC-I

AT TONE RATHER THAN POSSILY KISS OPPORTUNITY TO SEE HIM.

1S61N0 MILL BE LUSTRUCTEL TO SIGN LP FOR TOUR ON CITY

TOLFIO AUHENTICITY TO STORY.Y SAMKO MILL HAVE TO

BE PREPASTO MEPLY TO INVITABLE QUESTION FROM AMAUTO-I:

NOR DID YOU FIND MY ADURESSI SAMKO'S REPLY WOULD SE

THAT HE OSTAINED LODRESS FROM TOURIA EMPLOYEE AT AIRPORT

#A CFENT CONSIDERASLE TIME TRYING TO LOCATE AMANTO -I

MEDICANCE.

CADLESS APPEAKE IN DIP LIST AVAILABLE

CEFTLY.!

SARKO MOULD FURTHER EXPI AIN, IF NECESSAPY,

IYAT HE DID NOT MUON HOL FAPLOYEE GOT MUDRESS, BUT KNOWS

SHE MADE NUMBER OF TELEPHONE CALLS. DE CANNOT PREDICT

ANALTO-1'S REACTICE TO THIS WIFECT APORCACH. HE MIGHI

LAM PROSS OF FUSINESS CA CIRET COMMITMENIS INFREBY

MEFUSING SEE SAUKO IN GONG GOT MIGHT SUGGEST

THAT SAMKO

VISIT EMBASSY MODAY HORNIG. DAMA. SHOULD BE

PREPARED

TO TENTHAT IN THIS MILL NOT CHECKLASS AMAUTO-I HE

TO USE STANDARD

LIft

SECRET:

---

## Page 5

I CABLE SECRETARIAT OSSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTA: CORES

/When Filled If

SECRET SEA

ROUTING AND/OR INIT'ALS-SEEN BY

ADVANCE COME IMES

HOTTES

CASION TO LE FILENO.

+E7E6 SET

22-150R2.

PAGE I MADRID 1131 SECRET

THAI BECAUSE HE IS AMERICAN HE SHOULD NOT VISIT PBRUMEN

EMBASSY, WOULD, WE FEEL, QUICKLY AROUSE AMAUTO-1'S

SUSPICION. SAMKO'S APPROACH TO AMAUTO-I RESIDENCE CAN

BE MONITORED FROM HOMES OF IWO STAFFERS WHO LIVE WITHIN

EYSHOT OF AMAUTO-I'S RESIDENCE.

AMAUTO-I'S PROBABLE SECOND QUESTION: MOW DID

SAMXO KNOW HE WAS IN MADRID? REQUIRES MORE THOUGHT AND

VELP PROM MIAMI. IDEALLY, SAMKO SHOULD BE ABLE SAY THAT

A MUTUAL FRIEND OF BOTH AMAUTO-I AND SAMKO WERE TOGETHER

RECENTLY IN MIAMI AND AMAUTO-!'S NAME MENTIONED. SAMKO

ASKED WHAT HAPPENED TO AMAUTO-1 AND FRIEND DISCLOSED THAT

(IN 085474)

AMAUTO-I NOW

(SUBJECT WH/MIAMI, 7595

MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE "FRIEND" WHOSE NAME SAMKO MIGHT

USE. STATION SUGGESIS THAT CONTACT BE MADE WIIH SUBJECT

IN LOS ANGLELES TO DETERMINE WHETHER HE KNOWS WHERE

AMAUTO-I IS.

ALSO OBIAIN PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, OCCUPATION

IN LA AND PRIOR JOB IN MIAMI PLUS OTMER NOTABLE

CHARACTERISTICS WHICH COULD BE USED AS FILLER BY

SAMKO

TO SHOW THAT POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP EXISTED

BETWEEN

AMAUTO-I'S COUSIN AND SAMKO.) IN ADDITON,

SUGGEST

SECRET

---

## Page 6

CABLE SECRETARIET DISSEMINATION

C ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES

ROUTING ANDIOA INITIALS-SEEN BY

B;

panda ta cried it

AMATOESEE

Dren Deare

ACTION"

File,

12.

FAGE & MADRID 1I31 SECREI

PACHANKIS RE-CONTACT SAMKO TO ASCERIAIN NAMES OF PERSONS

IN UNITED STAIES WHO KNEW AMAUTO- 1 AND FROM WHOM SAMKO

OSTENSIBLY MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED

INFORMATION OF AMAUTO-I'S

MADRID

ASSIGNMENT. WELCOME OTHER SUGGESTIONS AS REPLY

TO ABOVE QUESTION.

2. LINE

SAMKO WOULD TAKE AFTER FOOI IN DOOR SHOULD

BE THOROUGHLY REMEARSED IN MIAMI BEFORE ARRIVAL MADRID

BECAUSE OF DI - ELEMENTA MIAMI SHOULD

CABLE WHAT SPECIFIC

+

INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN TO SAMKO SO THAT STATION OFFICER

COMPLETELY AWARE OF MOW SAMKO IS TO CONDUCT HIMSELF.

3. IN VIEW DESIRE TO INITIATE CONTACT BEFORE AMAUTO- 1'S

JUNE DEPARTURE SUGGEST CONTAGI ABOVE PERSONS ASAP.

4.

SECRET

FILE 201-735296 GP-1

SUE UPON REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 7

t.!:

it'?

TRANSVISAI

OF

IDOS INFORMAZION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ROUTINO

teres tal

..i!

067

61_03 5. CALPIO, CA/PROP. CI/OPS, CIIC 2. CS/DO. -

100. 106. 10/0. IN BURS

Del 2/111

102,1/1

TDCSDB-315/02487-70

PRECEDENCE

X I ROUTINE

BASED ON

(FLD. RPS., PROT)

CISSER NATION

PARA 1:

OURETCi 722

OSM-10026/MADR 1069

(IN 079701)

NADR-1100

(IN 082937)

QUSEQUIN/ QUDOZE

1.i0it

Liaison:

65*

NAYY

AIR

RECOMMENO EXO

125

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTROLLED DISSEM

LADE AVAILADIE CO

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

MADRID WH/MIAMI

SHOW IW

¿ DISSEIA ELECTR CALLY

TO:

(CORRECTION TAPE USED)

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

USID PERSONAL ATTN

ZRWAHDO CABLE SENT

XXXX

AS RELAY

F4e:

R

NOT FOR LIAISON

G S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHESTICAINP O SE

¡COORDINATINO OFFICER(S)

Materi

C/AM/COs/RR

E/IB/R

RELEÄSING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

wines firied in:

COPY NO.

(15-20-64-47)

---

## Page 8

Intelligence Information Cable

IN-079701

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NUCC/MO (SECDES JES ARMY NAVY AIR) CLA/NMCC NIC NSA

500 XXXX576XX 83x326

F8X7X8XX

DIRECTORATE OF

PLANS

on motor do revealed orator one me too on outor to boison

prohibited by lar

mening of tha Espionore iors, Jirla 18, U.S.C. Sess. 7E2 ond 79d, tho

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDCS DB-315/02467-70

SECRET

10 18 002Wa70

DIST 18 MAY 1970

COUNTRY CUBA/SPAIN

DOI

SUBJECT

4-6 MAY 1970

PROTESTS BY CUBAN EMBASSY IN SPAIN OVER ALLEGED ATTACKS ON

CUBAN OFFICIALS

ACQ

SOURCE

SPAIN, MADRID (EARLY MAY 1970)

AN OFFICIAL SPANISH SERVICE; FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS

SENSITIVE AND USUALLY RELIABLE,

FIELD NO. OSM 10026

1. IN EARLY MAY 1970, THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MADRID

PREPARED A PROTEST NOTE TO THE SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY OVER

AN INCIDENT WHICH OCCURRED AT THE BARAJAS AIRPORI IN MADRID

BETWEEN CUDAY REFUGEES AND CUBAN OFFICIALS, IN WHICH BLOWS

WERE EXCHANGED.

ACCORDING TO MINISTER GUILDERNO RUIZ,

CUBAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES, THE EMBASSY WILL CHARGE THAT SIX

FINCTIONARIES AND FOUR DIPLOMATIC COURIERS FROM HAVANA WERE

PHYSICALLY ATTACKED ON 4 NAY AT THI AIRPORT BY DISAFFECTED

CUDAYS, ALL RESIDENTS OF SPAIN. THE NOTE STATED THAT "THIS

COWARDLY AND UNJUSTIFIABLE AGGRESSION" ENDANGERED DIPLONATIC

• SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 9

IV-1.75/U1

NDCSD3-315/02187-70

PAGE 2 03 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEX/CONTROLLED DISSEM

DOCURITS AXD COULD MOT BE COXSIDERFD AN ISOLATED ACT BUT THE

CONSFOURICE OF REPEATED PROVOCATIOYS AT BARAJAS.

SPANISH

AWIGORITIGS WERE ASKED TO PREVENI A REPETITION OF THESE

ISCIDINTS.

2. (FIELD COMMENT:

ACCORDING TO

TO THE A MAY

INCEDENT, THE CROND INCLUDED

23 MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND A NONBER OF CUBAN EXPATRIATES

MEETING

AN IBERIA FLIGHT FROM HAVANA WHICH WAS CARPYING 75

CUBAN OFFICIALS AND 30 CUBAN REFUGEES. XINO TORRES,

FORMER MAYOR OF

SANTIAGO DE CUBA AND A MAN OF OVER 60 TEAPS OF

AGE, ADDRESSED ONE

OF THE ARRIVING CUBAY OFFICIALS, MISTAKING

FOR

A REFLGEE.

THE OFFICIAL REBUFFED HIM RUDELY AND

GENERAL

ARGUMENT SYSUED AND

BLOWS

VERE EXCHANGED. BORICIO

PLENTES

MARTINEZ, FIRST SECRETARY OF TIE COBAN ENBASSY,

JUNDED FROM A NEARBY CAR

AND PISTOL-ITIPPED ONE OF THE REFUGEES.

AFTER MIE POLICE ARRIVED, TORRES AND MIS WIFE NEEDED MEDICAL

ATTENTION.)

3. ON E YAY, ROBERTO FR

ANCO OLIVA, CUBAY CONSUL

IN DRID, COXPLIINED SO A SPANISH POLICE INSPECTOR CONCERNING

THE INCIDENT AT THE AIRPORT AS POLLOYS:

M. THE SCENE AT THE AIRPORT HAD BEEN PREPARED BY THE

C.S. CRYTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) AND 'COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES. "

INE INSPECTOR REPLIED TO THIS THAT SPANISH AUTHORITIES WERE

SECRET NO FORDIGN DISSEX/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 10

CDCSD6-315/02187-70

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SEC

PET NO FOREIGN DISSEY/CONTROLLED DISSEX

INYESTIGATING AND WOULD GIVE CUBAN OFFICIALS THE PROTECTION IN

SPAIN WHICH THEY SHOULD HAVE, HE SAID THAT THREE CUBAN REFUGEES

RAD EDEN ARRESTED AND WOULD BE DEPORTED TO FRANCE. FOR THEIR

PAT, THE REFUGEES HAD SAID THAT HORACIO FUENTES HAD PULLED

OUT A GUN DURING THE FIGHT, A CHARGE WHICH FRANCO DENIED AT

LENGTH.

B. MANY OTHER ATTACKS HAVE BEEN SCHEERED BY CUBAN

OFFICIALS AT THE AIRPORT AND DAMAGE DONE TO THETR PARKED CARS.

C. WHEN CUBAN SEAMEY ARE ARRESTED BY THE SPANISH

POLICE IN THE CANARY ISLANDS THEY ARE INTERROGATED SEPARATELY

IN THE POLICE STATION BY AN AGENT OF THE CIA WHO IS

D. ALTHOUGH THERE ARE SPANISH REPUBLICANS AND

SPAYISH COMMUVISTS IN CUBA, THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN HAVANA

NEVER MOLESTED.

E.

FRANCO IS PREPARZD TO ADVISE CUBAN PASSEXGERS

COMING TO SPAIN TO CARRY RAZORS FOR SELF DEFENSE.

CUBAN OFFI-

CIALS, PARTICULARLY THOSE WHO CO TO THE AIRPORT, SHOULD APPLY

FOR LICENSES TO CARRY PISTOLS.

1. (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL SPANISI

SERVICE, CUBAN DIPLOATS MY APPLY FOR GUN PERMITS TO TIE

SPANISH FORDIGY MINISTRY AND WOULD PROBABLY RECEIVE PERMISSION.

NOX-DIPLOMATIC CUBANS NUST APPLY TO THE DIRECTORATE GENERA OF

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 11

IDCSDS-926/02487-70

PAGE 4 OF

4 PAGES

SECRET YO FORDIGY DISSEW CONTROLLED DISSO:

LITERY SUCCRITE (DOS) DUT WOUID FROBABLY NOT AECEIVE

PERKISSION. TOCSDB-310/01744-70 ALPORTED TIST IS OF & APRIL

ALL CUBAN CONMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVES HERE CARRING PISTOLS,.

AND TILT SOURCES OF KONN RELIABILITY HAVE NOTED THAT CUBAN

DIPLOVATS ABROAD HAVE BEEY ACTHORIZED BY THE CUBAN GOVERNWENT

TO CARRY A SINLE HAND WEAPON.)

3.

FIELD DISSEX:

STATE.

SECRET NO FOREICS DISSEX/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 12

6. 439

C.üh

(derses)

C.

:11

0? 1E00 AOOV: AUAUGO 26116626016 GAEO 698 416A06 70

teile a

110009

1000 50

15771424,70

2011736296

---

## Page 13

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERION/UNIT NOTITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE, "JOTA, CORIES

FROUSE

ROU TING AND/OR IMITLE SEN O*

ADVANCE COPY

DISSEM BY

298

IsSUEO

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIRITEO

INO

CLASSIFY TO CE FILE NO.

AT:

X-REF TO CS FILE NO.

FiLE RID

• RETURN TO -

BRANCH

FILE, VR

RIAN EURO 52 CIlopS dI CI/IC2

-DRP ADDI CSDO

SECRET 151724Z MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 7570

.....

(NEBECKER ACTING)

15 Mali: 08 4 1 49

DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 033355

B. UFAA- 1978

1. IN MEETING WITH SAMKO ON 14 MAY, PACKANKIS MENTIONED

POSSIBLE TRIP TO MADRID AS TOURIST TO HOLD "CHANCE MEETING

WITH AMAUTO/1.

SMAKO VERY ENTHUSED, FLATTERED HIS GOVERNMENT

NEEDED HIM, AND

IN POSITIVE FRAME OF MIND FOR OPERATION.

NO FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS MADE (EXPECT WE WOULD PAY EXPENSES

ON TRIP) AND HE APPEARS TO BE MOTIVATED TO HELP COUNTRY

AND OLD FRIEND.

AT OUR REQUEST, SAMKO HAS APPLIED FOR

NEW PASSPORT.

INCIDENTALLY, HIS WIFE PASSED AWAY ON

6 NOVEMBER 1969.

WE ARE NOW IN POSITION TO DISPAICH SAMKO. PLS

ADVISE WHEN HE IS NEEDED ON AMAUTO/1 APPROACH.

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

enough caution

"and

politial" ets. have alreidy besp

costar wets this of

SECRET

---

## Page 14

Nge 08101003

ECITIUNG

DECE TAMAT DICTATION

POUTING ANEGO MUTALE CHIN

"SECHET-...

25.

427

SECRET IISO2Z MAY 7& CITE WA/MIAMI

15 15

ONE SECKER

ACTING)

DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

!?:

REF: DIRECIOR 030893

1. MANUOL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 A2F IS COUSINE

OF AMAUTO-L. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEDRIEFING BY AMOTIN- 122

ON 24 FEBRUARY. VISOS KAS HOT SEEN AMAUTO-I SINCE

1953, HAS BERK RECDIVING PSICHIATRIG TREATMENT FON

SEVERAL YEARO, DO IS MONOGEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO

PROM VIGOS, ANOIS DID NOT PREPARE REPORI ON AMAUTO-1.

2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW MOR ANY POSSIBLE

INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-735205- UP-1

CECRET

10 X

501-935296

le? Rices

---

## Page 15

OTICK

KXT.

1).

(CHARD

WHEELER:ndu

#N/COG/OPS

R1819/7144

17 MAY 1970

CABLE DESALTATIAT DISSEMPIATION

35/21

..PER

CONt:

ROTTING AND OR MATIALS. SIT DO

SECRET

DO RETUMN TO -

- BRANCH

LI FILE R10

FILE. IN CO FILE NO.

Te asia singyaulical

то !

SEC.

RET

1221 003Km Km70

CITE DIRECTOR

TI/MIAMI INFO MADRID

3339 с

ТУРІС АМСТО

REES: A. DIRECTOR 030893

B. UEAA-1978

1. VIBE REF B, HOS SANGUINE ABOUT POSSIBILITIES OF "CHANCE"

APPROICH BY SATKO TO AMAUTO-L. AS REASONABIY WELL OFF RETIRED

PERSON, SANKO COULD NATURALY GO TO MORID IS TOURIST. WOS WONDERS

WHETHER THIS WOULD HOLD MATER UNLESS WIFE ACCOMPANIED HEM. REQUEST

GLINT INVESTICATE THIS POINT.

2. APPROACH BY SANKO WOULD AIROST CORTAINLY NOT LEND TO

RECRUITNENT, BUT WOULD OFFER PERSONAL READENG OF ANAUTO-1 BASED TI

ON WHIT APPEARS TO BE WARM ENTRED PROVIDED BY FONDLY-REMEMBEREDIN

AT VU

RS.

PAST ASSOCIATION, IF APPROPRIATE, SANKO COULD PROVIDE LINK TO

"OTTER WORLD' IN CASE ANNUTO-I EVER NEEDED HELP. TATIER SCUDULDE-TO

TRIVE TAVANA IN JUNE 70 AND RETURN HADRED PRIOR POSTING CUBA CS

JUDGING FROM ANDEDEN-L AND ANDELAY- CASES, BRIEF RETURN TO CUBA

MIGHT PROVE TURNING POINT IN ANY DECISION TO DEFECT.

¡NANE MEETING VITE SIMO SOOLD DE PRIOR FUSEDEDARTURE,

IN EVENT POSSIBLE SANKO TRAVEL TO MADRID, WE WOULD NEED

735296

CONT

INUED

= JUPY

2 mal

UTHENTICATINO

DEFICER

ACLEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPPOOUCAON COHE PORTER TONG OFFICE DO PROLINED.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 16

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESE

ORIGA

UNITI

EXTr

DATE

IN 30 AM '70

--px20

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

-GED

1207

D INDEX

- PER.

SECRET

CONF

400-4441-30-PH-74

[7 NO INDEX

REVE

SEURN TO

O FILE IN CS FILE NO - RID/EDI

HOUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN DY

- BRANCH

L FILE RID

FILE, VR,

(classification)

SECRET

(data and time fues)

(eritenco number

(pica).

CITE DIRECTOR

то Г

70333557

PAGE TWO

LIST

OF PLACES FREQUENTED BY AMAUTO-1 WHERE SANKO WOULD HAVE CHANCE

"BUNP INTO" HIM. IF MADRID HAS OTHER IDEAS, WELCONE ALTERNATIVE

SCENARIO.

4.

FILE: 201-735296.

WH/COMMENT:

END OF MESSAGE

Ref A said

Hqs willing

consider use of SAMKO to approach

AMAUTO-1.

Ref B

gave results

Miami's contacts with

SANKO.

li: 3. 503

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

c/vI/COG

Excluder trom automatic

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

## Page 17

FORM 3020

10 8444

USE PREVIOUS

LDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

"CHEN DOT NOTRICO

CLASSIFIRO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES QY

SECRET

Strous

SPOUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN

#OVANCE COPY

175U02

927

IDEX:

CLASHEY TO ES PILENOR COPY

AT:

28

FET

i a Bank to ta all

FILE, VR

G/Os. F12, EUR6

seing board.

SE CR

E T 121902Z MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 75 I5 (NEBECKER ACT ING)

DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REP: DIRECTOR 030893

1• MANUEL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 REF

IS COUSIN&

OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN- 122

ON 24 FEBRUARY. VIGOS HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO- I SINCE

1963, HAS BEEN RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENI

FOR

SEVERAL YEARS, AND IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO

FROM VIGOS, AMOIS DID NOT PREPARE REPORI ON AMAUTO-1.

2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE

INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

FILE;

---

## Page 18

SOMPLETED BY

¿ABLE SEGRETARIAT

MAr 18 3 40 FM '70

ACTION COPY

file

4391

OB CRET

ISIORK MAY 76 CITE WA/MIAMI 7595 (NEBECKER ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO MADRID

TYPIC ANAUTO

REP A DIRECTOR 032503

Tol: 4081546)

10u006:20

1.

C:0-1

DUSLAR TATUL CANGED PENGER DERANTED

10 235 DRAGON AVE ag APT I6, L031

ANGELES SWElS, NO

TELEPHONE. ABOVE FROM ATLATIVE OF VIGOS IN MIAMI,

ERGLOES CGALGIAL DODAMNOO, WHO DOES NOT KNOW AMAUTO- 1.

2. NO INDISATED IU REY S, ANOTS DID NOT PREPARE

SU. MARY ON ACAUTO-L HICH VIGOS DESHIEFING, DUE TO LACK

OF LARGE ABOVE ALDRESS FORWARDED IU CASE NOS WISHES TO

FUNGUE.

3. FILE: 241-739295. GP-1

miduinebe.

Quaw. no utaest.

AMAUTO-Y

75627

---

## Page 19

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

Filled Irs)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

S. ANALYST

IB. DATE FROCESSED

112. CROSS ACFERRED TO THIS FILE

16.

PI FILE NO.

DISFATCH OR SOURCE DOC, SYMBOL NO.

7. FOURCE CRYPTONYUTE. DATE OF INFO.

16. DISSEMINATED IN

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13

TRANSFERRED TO

&I FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMAIION

DATE

EVALUATION

RUIZ, GUILLERMO

201-73525€

SEX M

D08 ?

201-814891

MADR- 01054

08 MAY 7O

CIT CUBA

OCC ?

TRAVELING HAVANA MID-JUNE FOR A MEETING

OF AMBASSACORS

UFAOIR

R. 7065190007

FILE IN 201-735296

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

* 861

SECRET

17-46)

---

## Page 20

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

** 5

PRIOR TO HUNG

TO ACTION BRANCH

and forward to

Destroy front cover shoot,

unless i records

signicant achon taken a communte rocut.

ing preservation

FROM:

li Ale no

and titie shown are out proper.

inser proper file no below and forward

document to RID AN

REVER

RID/AN

ERI* 4239

VAL

TO

ROOM

be tales

C* 50

IUDn

CI -7

24:

OFFICER:

5.

TO. ALLADDRESSEES

ILLIA SECTION TON DACK. IF AFFROPRIATE

COMMENTS

= 3: Chocke w

Chile dots I ace

Emmis

Aliciter

Beat

Dary

10

11

12.

13.

14

16.

17

RID/FI

ALQUEST

DEFEMICHORT 9.0

410a

Reidaa

22 Maymay

may day?

is Piralle

1s out hou dle

Dani, lines anemitrase,

Aut Mano its sams like a

ough wet in himself.

in by for

AVAUTO

14 P's put att

it wils

i here;

201: 235296

DOCUMENT NUMBER

Now 17.

194A29024

SECRET

3

04827

---

## Page 21

-DISPATCH

SECBET

TO

Chief of Station, Santiago

TINFO,

Calet,

Western Henisphere Diviaion;

I FROM

Chief, Europe Division; COS, WH/Miami

SIBET

Chief of Station, Maarid

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ARULE/QUTIMID/PBRUMKN/Manue] TELLO IrONCOSO

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXAG

NO HOSTINE REQUIRED

DILY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINE

MICROFILM

On 29 October QUTIMID reported & conversation

between Guillermo RUIZ Perez, the Caban Minister to

Spain, and Hanuel TELLO Ironcoso, identified in the

Diplomatio list as Counsellor oe, Kubassy, regarding

the pustponement until 31 October of a meeting they

were to have on 29 October.

We have no information

on the purpose of the meeting. We note that TELLo

arrived in Spaln in January 1969.

Howard R. SACODER

Distribution:

2 - COS, Santiago - To oUT Pouch

* - C/wHD

2 - C/EUR

2 - COS/WH, Miani- To OUT Pouch

CS 80PY

2CE RAN to =/IB/S

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CISPATO! SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OSHA 25624

CASSTACATION

SECRET

7 November 1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-735296

---

## Page 22

DISPATCH

al

Chies si Stattoo, Martia

i,80

Chief of Station, Wa/Liani

F204

Chief:

Westero Hemisphere Division

"study un Guiltermo RUTz peret:

ACTION REQUIRED BUFTRENCES

LUVITOR

CRRT

MADE DE NOTA

NO SCENE REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFRO DESE

CAN WOE NOEUNG

MICROFILE

Reference: OSHW-11726

Forwarded herewith is a completed version by AXEDIT-? of

the study on Guillermo RUIZ Perez.

MICHAEL V. SLATINSKI

KENNETH B. TICINETO

Attachment: h/w

Distribution:

3 - COs, Madrid w/att b/w

2 - COS, WH/Miami w/att b/w

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

8 MAY 1970

(5 May 1970)

All

• 1/

Distribution:

•AB

1 - EUR/IB

IN

1

WH/COG/OPS

PS

WH/COG/Chrop&s

RID

1 - Originator

DESIRED

SECR

IWH/ COG/OPS

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/ WH/COG

201735296

Richara

& Whecter

COORDINATING

DATE

OFFICER'S NOME

5 Hug T0

James

E.

Flannery

7144

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/EUR/ IR

DAIL

53

RELEASING

OFFICERS SIGNATURE

Louis Rosso

Glenn

A.

Rounsevell

DISPATCH

---

## Page 23

SUBJECT OF DOCLUENT

SECRET

(57.073

Tarted ins

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DO UMENT

5. ANALYST

L1RI CROSS REPERRED TO THIS FILE

IOENTIFICATION

DI FILE NO.

SYMAOL NO.

I SOURCE CRYETONEN E.

DATE OF INFO.

OTISEMiNATES IN

DATE

GISFOSITION

6AN34493LD 79

PI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DAlE

FVALUATION

RUIZ PEREZA

ORESTES GUILLERMO

201-735256

SEX M COB ?

201-856054

UFAA -6: 973

04 MAY TO

CIT ?

OCC ?

INFO AS REPORTEC BY SUBJECT OF 201-866054

R 7005110495

OSM

FILE IN 201-235246

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

roSy

867

SECRET

18-161

---

## Page 24

tonio.

CABLE SECRATARIAT DISCE 12A710

stee woot

ARVANCE COM

1

TorAL COME: 24

SECRET

An D 1040010 Ors

ANY TORTENS

AGA BOYY

Eriter

hansens

- 26

WH 8.

0.581

SECRET 0S1046 MAY 70 CITE MADRID 1054

DIRECTOR INFO WA/MIAMI ROME

TYPIC AMMEDIA QUDOZE

BHAY MO 73050

1• FROM QUSEQJIN/ QUDOZE 6 MAY:

AO CARLOS ALF AR A S, CUBAN ANBASSADOR LEBANON AND

SYRIA, TOLD ANTOLIN (PROBABLY ANTOLIN ALF ON SO CASTENEDAL,

CUBAN E:BASSY ROME THAT HE CALFARASS AND WIFE SCHEDULED FLY

MADRID/ROME 9 MAY IBERIA FLIGHT 358. ANIOLIN SAID THAT

SALVADOR VI LASE CA, AUDASSADOR ITALY, IN CUBA FOR WEEK'S

VACATION; EXPECIED RETURN ROME & MAY ALITALIA 366.

B. QUILLERMOR U 1Z, CHARGE IN MADRID, SAID HE TRAVELING

HAVARA MID-LUDE FOR A MEETING OF AMBASSACORS.

2. FILE 201-814891, 201-7352996, 201-759701.

GP- 1

SECRET

Estrat for t01'is

FILE:

11

SECRET

---

## Page 25

9711

=:!.

V

ESCEND NuEELER;pEd

Mil COG/OPS

RI&19

I MAY

1970

CALLE LECOETARIRT DISSORNARION

or 51/21

WER

FocA

Maid COME:

SECRET

I NO iNDEX

TEME IN ES FILE NO.

¿OUTING AS OR RATES:

23

[I RETURN TO

BRANCH

D FILE RIO

(acherion)

SECRET

TO MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

(date and timo filed)

REF: A.

WI/MIAMI 7346 (IN 072939)

B. DIRECTOR 021639

(referenco number - Dica)

CITE DIRECTOR

0

3,0303

• 7

• U.

NED

1. REF A REPRESENTS LEAD TO AMAUTO-I WHICH HQS WILLING

PURSUE IF MADRID THINKS WORTH WHILE. ALTHOUGH SANKO DID NOP

INDICATE RELATIONSHIP WAS VERY DEEP, QUIIVID/QUDOZE TRAFFIC SEENS

TO INDICATE AMNOTO-1 LOOKED ON SAMKO WITH GREAT DEAL NOSTALGIA.

MUCH DEPENDS ON MADRID'S OTHER PLANS THROUG! SUBJECT REE B (201-866047) .

REQUEST STATUS YOUR CONTACT WITH HIM AND PLANS.

2.

RECENT REVIEW OF AMAUTO-I TAPES BY AMEDIT-2 SHOW THAT

IAUTO-1 MAINTAINS CONTINUING RELATIONSHIP WITH QUSEQUIN-82.

AXEDIT-2 COMMENTS THAT QUSBOUIN-82 KNOWS AMAUTO-1 PERSONALLY AND

SEES MMM

RATHER OFTEN BUT PRESUMABLY IN LINE OF DUTY. HQS INTERESTED

IN NATURE AND EXTENT THIS RELATIONSIIP, VIEW QUSEQUIN-82 COMMENTS

REPORTED

IN OSMA-23624, ATTACHMENT 1, STATION NIGHT USE THIS

RELATIONSHTP TO APPROACIL AMAUTO-1.

WODISH

221--235270

3. 150 REPORT DATED 27 WAR 70 VAS DEBRITFING DE MANURL

CCSROINATING OFFICERS

BELLASING OFFICER

SECRET

Eschate tr

04 Tila:, 70

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

DERDARURTINE DE DOHER THAN THE ASSHING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 26

UNITI

DAVE:

NAY

10 23 AM '711

CALLE SCCRETARIAF OISSEMINATION

REID/EDI:

CONFE

FILE, VA,

(classificationi

SECRET

LINDEX

FILE IN CS FILE TO

MESSAGE. fORM

TOTAL

CORIES:

SECRET

4 26 PM *70

PAGE TVO

(dato and timo filed)

ROUTING ANDION

PATIALE • SEEN BY

LI RETURN TO

= BRANCH

DO FILE RIO

по Г

(elite)

(reterence number)"

7030113

(VIGOS) PEREZ, 30-YEAR OLD CUBLE WHO ARRIVED MIAMI BY AIR ON

20 FEB 70. VIGOS CLIIS TO BE UNIDENTIFIED CLOSE RELATIVE OF

AMAUTO-1 BUT HAS AMAUTO-I'S HISTORY SOMEWHAT GARBLED. VIGOS

ALSO SAYS THAT ONE OSVALDO RUTZ PEREZ, DESCRIBED AS BROTHER OF

AMAUTO-1, HAS ASKED TO LEAVE CUBA AND IS NOW IN CANE FIELDS.

WI/MIAMI REQUESTED TO CHECK THESE LEADS.

4. FILE 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

Wil/COG/COMMENT:

Ref A said that SANKO, Miami butcher who old

acquaintance

Of ANAUTO-1.

has been located

and willing travel to Madrid if necessary.

Reê B is POd grant for one Carlos CARRASCO,

whom Madrid plans to use somehow to get to

AMAUTO-1.

- (pica)

7

Oh 8 I NON

JOIN IT. SHERWOOD

C/E/FI/CI

POLE SING OFFICER

Drum irrit

C/UH/COG /2

IC/EUR/IB

COMRCOME NG OPE

ICERS

SECRETTI.

sound piec

WILLIAM I

C/WHD

BROE

a tastic

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

## Page 27

DISPATCH

SECRET

INFO.

Chief, Neatern Benisphere Diviston

European DivisIon

Chief

of Statiod.

XA/Miami

F20M

Chief of Station, Madric

SUSJECT

CUTTKID QUOZE

Sonis GONT? Aragon, Cuban MINREX Official

ACTION REQUIRED REFERINCES

AR: None, FYI. Please assign 201 nunber

References:

A.

B.

MADRID 0473

WH/MIAMI 6576

C. DIRECTOR 011307

NO INDON AG PIQUIRED

ONLY GLAUFED DESE

CAN JUNGE INDEXING

MICROFAM

The following inforaation about Subject's trip to

Spain and her activities while here was obtained from QUI INID

and QUDOZE.

Subject arrived in Madrid on 10 February 1979.

traveled to Barcelona

during the week of 23 February and

returned to Hadrid 6 March whereupon she then left for Portugal.

She returbed to Madrid on 17 March and walted for Guillerso

Porez" return fron the Spanish/Cuban Comercial nego-

tIatione la Cuba.

Sonia departed Madrid fos Cuba eu 27 March 1970.

It appears that

she intended to travel to Vienna, Austria sext,

several cables vere sect to Vieuna froz Madrid advieing

Sonia's travel status. During hor stay in Spain, Sonia was in

frequent contact with

one Jose Agustin

GOYIISOLO

are OSBA 02385,

17 February

and OSBA 02795, 1 March 1968).

in contact with any other locals and what little time she had

diversion she spent with the mission officers and their

Distribution:

2 - C/WED

2 - C/EUR

2 - COS, WH/Miani

....cootinued

01.869442

CROSS REFERENCE TO

652÷1079

65-64474

201-730296

DAT:

OSH, - 26218

CASIRILATION

SECRET

13 kay 1970

HOS PIE NUMBER

71435216

•201-

---

## Page 28

CONTINUATIONO

DISPATCH

SECRET

CSMA 26:13

The purpose of Sonia's trip to Nadrid was to discuss

the 1970 work plan for the Embassy with the Charge, Guillerto

RUIZ PereZ.

She aiso talked with the vardous Babassy officiale,

most probably to faniliarize herself with their duties ano to

see if they bad any problens.

She pitched in and helped with

the backlozzed work of Orestes

FUENTES and also helped eith the cultural activities.

For instance, she sent two cables to MINREX • one regarding

the forwarding of movie posters for a March exhibit and another

regarding the forwarding of a Cuban

stamp exhibition by end

In their discussion of the 1970 work plan Sonia told

RUIZ that they were going to plan the February,

March, and

April quarter. She showed hia "an agenda for the control of

planned and unplanned activities" and the

general directives of

the plan which included scientific information and political

information, with specifie directivea

(requirements) for Spalk.

RUIZ has to prepare for Savans 2 monthly report, then a quarterly

SUMMArY, of

the activities accouplished.

reports the actlvities of the following quarter will be planned.

In line with the plan of scientific

and cone of

1s to be set up in Madria.

FUlL was of the

opinion that the local (Spanish)

would bring problems to the Embassy.

Sonta

encountered in

Switzerland and Sweden with such a committee

even though at first there were problems

wich were later overcone.

Sonta showed RUIZ a conmercial project

she plauned to take

to Portugal and

asked hin to read it because it was also of

interest to the Cuban mission in Spain.

Sonta mentioned that the Plan of

Information was still to be completed especially

1n the priority categories of livestock and

econony.

They turned next to the topic of

the budget.

said that the budget

mission had

to be submitted before

the end of April (every year)

and no additional

expercitures could

be subaltted for approval

during the course of the year.

Spain, Canada,

and France, however, would

treated individually.

Tbeir spocial needs, such as acquisition oi

more olice space, raises in cost of living

allowances, etr., would be taken into consideration

at aby time.

FORM

530

LLASSIFICATION

SECAFT

PAGENO

KA COMINUFO

---

## Page 29

CONTINUATIONO:

DISPAICH

SECRET

Durine their vartous discussions RUlE aired his

complaint about the Vias Departaent

the departeent was practically

and that last year

76 cables regarding visas remained unanswered.

defended the Ministry saying that it had & lot of work to

do, but RUl2 replied that they wanted to work only 8 hours

They also discussed the scholarship situation.

seems that during an interview betreen

PRIETO

PRIETO

Benitez, Director of Foreign Relatione of

the DAP) and the Minister of public Works, PRIETO was asked

to provide a liat of scholarship

candidates to be considered

in Belgiun they aiso

lost four scholarshipe because of this sase reason.

According to QUIMMID Sonia GOME Z Aragon is

marIled to one Miguel (LNU) and bas a daughter pared iliare.

Sonia's nother is still living aithough appeared to be very

1l1 at the tine Sonte left for her trip to Madrid because

Sonia cabled at least twice to Havana inquiring about the

status of her

mother's beaith.

(TILOTE reported that Sonta's

number in Havana

1s 7-4263.) Perbapa Headquarters

can deteraine the full nane of her husband by checking the

roverse telephone listings.

Sonia 1a attractive, intelligent,

sertious-minced and reserved. The last time she visited Spado

she stayed with Vera

BORODO#SK I and was on the sane

mission as the present one • to discuss the Hadrio

Embasey's work plan.

She also visited the Barcelona Consulate

and the Cuban Babasay in Lisbon.

Helen B. NOTHDURFT

WASSECTON

FACENO

4.F.4

530

1: 896th the 11

---

## Page 30

costs sure the nor person fie

Since Headquarters has recently prepared an

extensive

analysis

on RUIS for the information

of addressees,

additional review has been omitted.

However, the

attached

biographic study should be usedul.

for tod

---

## Page 31

NAME:

ALIAS:

DPOB :

PRESENT

POSITION:

WIFE:

CHILDREN:

PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION:

PERSONALITY:

30 April 1970

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296)

(NOTE:

A

comprehensive study/analysis

on RUIZ was prepared in

Februaxy 1970,

see OSMW-11726.)

Also uses Guillermo RUIZ Perez

10 February 1930, Havana

Minister, Charge d'Affaires, Cuban Embassy,

Madrid, since December 1967:

Five sons,

and a sixth child due to be

born April/May 1970,

the oldest,

in school in Cuba.

with their parents in

Madrid.

White, variously described as 5'5" - 5'7"

wavy hair,

as blue and green), wears glasses.

visible identifying marks.

Well dressed.

Perhaps a relative's description of RUIZ

sums up his personality -

"a man of many

moods. "

He has variously been described

as intelligent, mentally alert,

hardworking,

and respected ey his subordinates.

Pleasant,

easy going, nervous, quick-tempered,

brusque but sincere,

opinionated, strong-minded

idealistic, self-confident.

emotional instability, gives impression

of being insecure in his position.

sarcastic, indifferent, egotistical, cynical,

serious, ungrateful and cold, who,

paradoxically, appears friendly to some people.

Outspoken, compulsive talker, articulate,

limited vocabulary, swears a good deal.

---

## Page 32

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

Ile can turn on considerable

charm, where motivated.

In

contrast to his pleasant public

image and acceptable language,

private conversation is vulgar,

swears continually and flies into

rages.

Likes good living and spends money

where it shows.

Avid reader, keeps

abreast of world events, shows

willingness to accept whatever he

deems to be good or useful from

the outside world.

Concerned with

the image and prestige of Cuba in

Spain.

Emotionally committed to

an ideal.

An AMEDIT study summed

RUIZ up as a realist.

He speaks

English and French.

his wife, a

teacher, always worked before going

to Spain, and there works as a

secretary and bookkeeper at the

Embassy on an informal basis.

intelligent, competent, outspoken

but solicitious and affectionate with

her husband; interested in, and

encourages him in his work.

support the regime, but not a fanatic.

RUIZ is the dominant personality of the

EDUCATION:

One reference states that he went to

work at age 11, which suggests lack of

formal education.

In 1960 as an employee of the Ministry

of the Treasury,

selected to attend

a statistics course offered by CEPAL,

which lasted two years.

One relative reported he completed

elementary education at "Hermanos

Maristas" school in Havana; did not

know whether he attended high school,

but said

in early days of the Castro

regime attended the University of

---

## Page 33

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

PREVIOUS POSITIONS:

Havana.

Another relative said his

primary and secondary

education

was received in private institutions,

and that he has a

degree in "political

economies" from the University of

Havana.

He is well versed in world affairs

and has

an understanding

of

international trade.

Vice Minister, MINCEX, 1964-1967.

Commercial Counselor, Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City.

Although he was

accredited to that position in

December 1963, travel indicates he

was in Mexico

from August 1963 to

May . 1964.

Other references indicate

he was in that position in September

Ministry of the Treasury.

1962 he was Chief of the

of Construction Expenses

Studies,

Office of

Financial Statistics of

that ministry.

He was with the

ministry as early as 1960, when he

was selected to attend the statistics

During the Batista regime he was in

to the U.s. sometime in

the 1950's and apparently remained for

some time before he left in February

1957,

when, according to some reports,

ne entered Cuba clandestinely.

reported to have been in exile ir

INYUMA records show he came to U.S.

on 8 November 1956 to see his brother,

left 17 November for the Dominican

Republic where he received five months

military training. Returned to the

---

## Page 34

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Peroz

U.S. 5 April 1957, overstayed

and on 1l February 1958

was ordered deported; claimed he

would be killed if he returned to

Cuba and did not show for deportation.

Subsequent investigation showed he

was in Cuba as of 2 March.

POLITICAL

ATTITUDE:

A member of the Cuban Communist

admitted on the recommendation

of Armando HART Davalos, Secretary

of Organization.

Although he has

been described

a militant Communist,

a convinced supporter of the Castro

regime and a fanatic Fidelista, there

is evidence to dispute this image.

An analysis of availabie information

indicates

that he is

not a convinced

Marxist, he cannot accept Party

discipline,

is basically incompatible with the

father is reported to be an old-

guard Communist and a leader

the barber's union.

reported to be a member of

DSE in 1946.

He expressed dissatisfaction with

his position as a diplomat, feels

his talents are wasted

would like

a position in commerce or industry,

where he considers he could better

the revolution.

Has criticized

the bureaucracy

inefficiency in

the government in Havana.

He has said that many Cuban diplomats

want to stay out of Cuba, but it

seemed to him that the Cuban government

wanted to keep him (RUIZ) out of the

way (1.e., outside Cuba). That LEON

had appointed him, supported him, and

they are good friends, but that he

(RUIZ) does not like to work with a

man who one does not get to know,

nor to know what he is thinking.

He

said he felt as if he were in Miami.

---

## Page 35

Orestos Guillermo RUIZ Perez

INTELLIGENCE

CONNECTIONS :

CONTACTS:

TRAVELS:

1963:

Aug. To Mexico

22 Nov.

Mexico-Cuba

29 Nov.

Cuba-Mexico

8 Dec. Cuba-Nexico

1964: 21 May. Mexico-Cuba

1967: 13 Dec. Cuba-Spain

1000.

---

## Page 36

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

1969:

16 Jan.

Netherlands-Spain

27 July

Spain-France

31 July

France-Spain

C Aug. Spain-Cuba

(via Ixeland, Canada)

29 Aug.

Cuba-Spain

21 Nov.

Spain-Cuba

10 Dec.

Cuba-Spain

27 Ecb. France-Spain

27 Feb. Spain-Dominican Republic

11 Mar. Spain-Switzerland

1 Aug. Spain-Cuba

17 Sept. Cuba-Spain (via French

West Indies, Azores)

10 Oct. Spain-Cuba

29 Oct. Cuba-Spain

11 Nov. Spain-UK

16 Nov. UK- Spain

28-30 Nov.

Iwo-day trip by auto to

San Sebastian and Burgos

ASSESSMENT:

6 Jan 70. To Italy, returning by auto.

Also claims to have been

in North

Vietnam as a member of a trade mission

(QUDOZE) .

It appears that RUTZ might well be responsive

to an approach, with

consideration given to

the manicr

in which it is undertaken, the

timing and

the person involved.

---

## Page 37

Orestes

Guillermo RUIZ Perez

ACCESS :

MISCEILANEOUS :

Although RUIZ' health has been

as gonerally good, he

suffers from a back ailment which

resulted from a fall in 1955

and which has been diagnosed as

Also he suffers from a

liver ailment for which he takes

medicinc.

RUIZ is scheduled to return to Cuba

in mid-1970, where he expects to

be with MININT, rather than MINREX

or

MINCEX.

---

## Page 38

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SEA SON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY TISSURO

CLASSIFIRO MESSAGE

* TOTAL COPIES"

SECRET

EROUS

Why Filed in

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMDITED

13

INDEX:

Dres

O NO

14

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

TREE TO CS FILE NO. -

DER ---

FILE RIO 1 RETURN TO

FILE, VR R/AN, EURG, CLOPS F12

PORTING AND OR INITIAIS SEEN AY

8

ACTION UNIT S

ACTION NO.

198

SECRET 291535Z APR 70

CITE WH/MIAMI

SmiM

DIRECTOR INFO MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

BER A INTER 9526(4020131)

B UFAA - 1978

1. SAMKO SHOWN PHOTOS OF AMAUTO-I AND REMARKED,

"WHY, THIS IS WILLIAM, " REMEMBERED AMAUTO-I AS NICE

CLEAN CUT BOY WITH HIGH IDEALS. WHILE THERE WAS

FROBABLY FATHER-SON RELATIONSHIP, SAMKO DID NOT

RECOGNIZE IT AS SUCH.

2.

SAM KO

IS WILLING TO IRAVEL TO MADRID TO TALK

WITH AMAUTO-1. HE HAS AN EXPIRED PASSPORT. WAS TOLD

INTERVIEW WAS EXPLORATORY AND PACHANKIS WOULD RECONTACI.

IF SAMKO SERVICES WERE NEEDED,

3a POUCHING ABOVE CONTACI REPORI, ALONG WITH

REF A CONTACT REPORT, VIA REF BI

4, FILE: 201-865054 AND

201-735296. GP=1

SECRET

BRANCH

ZUAPR INO 72939

AN I

AB

ES COPY

SECRET

735*9€

2901,2270

---

## Page 39

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATIONS

SECRET

Chief, Testern Benisphere Diviston

Chief of Station, Madrid;

Chief, Saropean Division

FROM

BUSITEr

Chiel of Statton, WI/M1an1

TYPIC AXAUTO

Interiter of Alexander SAKKO

SION REQUISTO KERINEE

Actiou Required: Para 2 below

Roferences:

A. DIRECTOR 026320,

B.

WH/MIAMI 7304

C. WH/WANI 7346

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXIME

NE. INDEXAO MOGIRED

ONLY QUALITITO DESK

CAN SURGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

fortarded tarawith are two contact isports

aubaitted by Henry S. PACKANLIS on his interviews with

Alexander SANKO (201-966054) concerning Orestor

GaLLATRO RULE Perez (201-735298).

Both contact raports

are nolt-explanatory and vero sunmarized 11 References

Melvin D. XERSCHEX

Attachsents:

Contact Report,

21 April 1970

3. Contact Report, 28 April I$70

Distribation:

2 - Chief,

14) 197:

201-735296

DISEATH SYMBOL AND NUMGEE

- UFAA-1978

LESIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

29 Aprt] 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-866654

---

