# 104-10174-10064

## Page 1

104-10174-10064

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Ho. 201-253203

MEMORANDUM FOR: Cior, B/TB/8,

Operational Approval la hereby Granted la the case of Lopk, n

any P.

for the purpose specified in your request

dated Be follows

fron those individunls and groupe within Spala who now play, aad

can be oxpected to play in the post-franco period, & signtficant

role la doteratning Bponish domestic and foreten policy, and

(b) to spot and assed Individuale vithin the sovs group for

2. It la understood that Subject himself will not attem

ecruitmante nor will he be regutred to break his cove.

In view of hia background, it la rec

comsended that

caution be exercised la dealing with Subject.

4. Tola cascals and supersedes all previous approvals.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this

Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/s/ Edward P. Erawn

CI/uPERATIONAl APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: _ 19 Auguat 1968-210

SECRET

11-253203

гари

8.88 124

---

## Page 2

1 February 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief/E/IB/S

SUBJECT:

Project WUBRIN& Possible Operational

Support of Madrid Station Objectives by

Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

REFERENCE:

OSMA 23, 350 Dated 1l January 1968

1. Per Mr. Long's request, the undersigned on 30 January 1968

discussed with Edward G. TIGHBORN (P) possible support of Madrid

Station objectives as raised in ref. It was confirmed that:

a.

WUSALINE/Iberia can be used as an information collection

mechanism in cases where information requirements can be couched

in plausible economic and commercial terms for contractual surveys.

b. TICHBORN can assess and develop selected Spanish contacte

of Madrid Station who may be visiting New Yotk and who desire

introductions in US commercial circles.

c. TICHBORN can develop Spanlards in New York as may be

of operational interest to the Madrid Station. TICHBORN has not

made an effort to develop Spaniards in New York but is willing and

able to do so for any designated as operational targets. If desired,

TICHBORN thinks he can meet the Spanish Ambassador to the U.S.

through a friend

d. TIGHBORN feels that he could write an article concerning

leading Spanish industrialists and bankers for publishing in a pro-

minent publication, such as "Life International." TICHBORN

believes that he has excellent bonafides for such a task because

he previously published in "Life International" a four page spread

on birth control in Latin America. This article was favoradly

reviewed,

TICHBORN suggested a related article on the pupula-

tion explosion in Europe and its effect on business as a possible

topic for interviewing leading Spanish businessmen. TICHBORN.

---

## Page 3

as a result of journalistic collaboration with Katherine Anne

Porter, is represented in New York by a top literary agent,

Monica McCall. TICHBORN thinks that it would take him two

to three weekg in Spain interviewing top Spanish industrialists

and bankers. He would send letters in advance to these targets

Informing them of his proposed itinerary, the purpose of his

trip, and enclosing copies of his previous articles with favor-

able reviewer commente. He could be essentially a free lance

journalist or have a business purpose as well. In the latter

connection, it is of interest that following TIGHBORN's trip to

Spain, WUBRINY/l sent a geologist to WUSALINE/Iberia to look

into acquisition of silver properties in Spain. This purely com-

mercial development appears to be a direct result of TICHBORN's

trip and thus enhances TICHBORN's commercial bonafides.

2. It is understood that E/IB/S has a copy of TICHBORN's report

for dispatch to the Madrid Station per ref.

3.

Personnel concerned with Project WUBRINY will be glad to

work with E/IB/S in any follow-up to the possibilities noted above.

112.

Allen

Gale Allen

DO/CO

---

## Page 4

SEORET

I Nav :966

DO 66-264

DeCO 774-56

AYORANDIN- FOR. Chief, EUR Division

AWSNTION

Chtes, E/TB

SUEJECT

Possible Exploitation of

Reference is made to the meetina.on inject with

Nr. Osborne Dav, DCOS/Madria,

• DC/B/IB, and

Mr. Gale Allen of DOCO just prior to Mr. Dav's departure for

Hadrid. It 13 recalled that. Mr. Allen agreed to pass the most

recent information on

to E/IB for transmittal

to Mr. Day In Madrid. Mr. Day would reviev this information

together with that known to the station and determine if the

firs has an operational potential for the Madrid Station. In

the event of an affirmative determination, Mr. Day indicated

that he would be interested in the assignment to

officer no would be carried

on the DU t/o but would be assigned operational tasks by the

Madrid Station:

I (see brochure attached as Tah Al is

currently has no staff. Two of the

pirectors,

concern ther-

selves with

matters on a day to day bast's when required.

serves mainly as the clearing house for

business

requiring support by

and forl

business requiring

support by

in Spair.

the President of

Recently In a letter dated 4 October 1966

suggested to the

President of

that a man and secretary be assigned

to

to "keep issues alive, look fer new ones, and obtain

the bates her one at op are to cleon at enore to

to. be done.

desire to assign an officer to

---

## Page 5

SECRET

3. The operational potenttal of

other

than

must necossartar depend upon

the activittes, perconnel, and contacts of

As way de

noted in the descriptive note on

ittached as Sas B, tbe

activities or

include research, consulsirs, securities;

ney business, underwriting, and Investment. Cbese activities

cut across nost aspecte of economie and political lite in Spain.

personnel have impressive backgrounds and Its clients

and references are of a very bigh level.

4. Attached as Tab C are three additional pablets on

covering its research and study department, its finacial

services, and its investment bulletin.

5.

Do would appreciate

your comments on assigning a WOFACT

officer to

Normally,

the Area bariston supplies

the officer to be assigned.

Do would, of course, welcome such an

assignment in this case.

Do, in coordination with sun, would

also be willing to consider a suitable career traine for assigment

to DO and thence to

as part of do's

Mr. Alien of DOCO,

Code 11, Extention 62888, may be contacted for hacher information

on this matter.

C haa

C.

Tracy

Jaruso -

Chief,

Attachmerts:

Tab A

Tab B

Tab C

2

SCORET

---

## Page 6

такое наа и

ESITED STATES COVERSMENT

Memorandum

10 :

Wis. Cue niion

De/co

8 November 1966

SERjECT: Information about Spaln (and Portugal)

1. I have a request which seems to me to be right up the alley

of your friend, WUBRINY/l, I would hope, therefore, that he will try

to do us a fairly rapid and yet analytic job.

2. The request is for as accurate information as possible on

the following questions:

What or who, or both, represent the most significant

power elements in the economic or commercial field in Spain

today? Wherever possible, even in the cases where potent

companies have been named, specific individuals having the

positions of authority should be identified. In addition, where-

ever possible, relationahips between these individuale and

American interests whether a company or another individual.

should be specified.

bo

What American interests, corporate or personal, have

major investments or holdings in Spain? What are the nature

of their Investments or holdings and who are the individuals

basically responsible?

c.

To the extent possible, provide the sanie answers a8

requested above for Portugal. Since Spain le of greater inters

est, this question should only be answered to the extent posaible

Without too great an expenditure of time. Il on the other hand it

is felt that good answers can be provided with regard to Portugal

given extra dme, I would suggest that the Spanish anawers bu

submitted a soon an possible and the Portuguese Information

given at a later data.

3.

I would appreclate it ll you could let me know as soon ad pos-

sible WUBRINY/l's reaction to the above requesto • can he got the anawers;

will they be in considerable detail and how long does ho think that it will take?

C525

---

## Page 7

P.S. It ls assumed that, ll it lo possible to do it at all, the

above request can be carried out without stirring a lot of curlosity

and consequent Leguiry.

---

## Page 8



---

## Page 9

DATE

007

29

DEC 61

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION - WH 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•SECRET

751-253243

ROUTING

Ra nihu (chink onal::

Đếc s9 09m2 51

N3 Todoses (canck one)

ROUT INE

IN bh35s

DIR CITE NEXI 9745

ODURGE HAS REQUESTED ROUTINE NAME CHECK ON EDWARD & TICHDORN (PS).

ODURGE TOLD LOCALLY THAT STATION FILES DO NOT REFLECT ANY DEROGATORY

INFORNATION PERTINENT TO SUSJECT•

SA,

ROUTING

k/7

Дорт

ITAL

DR.

50141 83

HID1MI2

NICE 05S

1352

SECRET

REPROQUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITEQ

+41-253203

Cosy Na'''

---

## Page 10

SECRET

WHEN PLUO INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

•INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sbret.

recorda significant action

consents requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no, and title shoes are not.

propor.

insort proper file co, belov

and forward documont to RID/AN..

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

RIJAN

= TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM.

NO.

VH

046 Barton

CHINA

•DATE

INTIALA

Trum

шме

N1/CA/F

5. Jan. 9

W-OGGED & COPY DETAC:

3 - 4 WhaT is The stalion

To vell us, - ther

DISCuSS wiThLeeSAT

9.

10.

14

.

10.

RID/FI

8B851

+ 8356451

AADA

PIS & 7152E

DOIN AMAN G. (8)

291-253201

"NAUTO AT

17M41

10100

---

## Page 11

770

DISPATCH

Chios, WaD

S&CRET

A70T

miat of Station. Herico City

OEdward U. TiCBORN

201-253203

Krensuittal of Merdcan Press Clip

vour Information

DISPATEN SIMON AND NO

DATE

HOCLA-18348

201-

22 Decenber 1961

MARKED FOR INDEUNG

NO INDEING REQUIRE)

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAURED HQ DEX ONIY

Attached under separate cover 18 a prese alip of a front-page

oditorial which appeared in Newspaper B on 18 December 1961, Aocarding

to TICHSORS, the "press interview" was arranged on 15 Decesber through &

tolophone corversation initiated by an assistant staff writer of News-

paper B. At that time, TICIBORN was requested to prepare a written commen-

tary on the toplo as preseated in the press lip, and on the evening of

15 Degember, TICHBORN's drafted commentary was submitted to a minor stall

vriter of Newspaper B. While the subject press artiole was presented as

a personal "Intervien" with by-line authorahip given to the writer an

indioated, TICHBORN reporte that he and the credited author have naver been

in contaot with each other. Subjeet clip is being forwerded for Head-

quarters information and Intarest.

Hillard (Costs

20 Deonaber 1961

3 - WHD, 0/at: 0/8/0

2 = ¿1l00

---

## Page 12

Encuesta Mundial

Henry P. López o la Votación

Mexicana en los Eslados Unidos

iudad Cientos de

ia de EXCELSIOR

-Por CARLOS DENEGRL

VIL-LOS ANGELES

¿Que decir de la influencia de México y de su cul-

tura en los Estados Unidos?

"Por favor -dice el abogado Henry P.. Lopez-

de extrac

note usted la acertada

sensibuicas politica del

Presi-

•(En

dente Kennedy, y tendremos una primera respuesta alelogio al

su pregunta,

alisen, ciudadano

Kenneas ha escarido a un mexicano de

norteamericanr. claro esta.

camarogr

Tellez, ex alcalde de El Paso, como embajador. de

Ramön

"Y

Estados Unidos en Costa Rica..:

los

Otro mexicano, de

sonrisa

origen. ha sido designado pará dirigir el juzgado de dis

tinflas"

trito del Sur de Texas.

Al caso de Enrique Gonzalez;

mas impo

abogado de San Antonio, es un ejempio mas..

Roland

Nuevos mod

Navidad. Eli

ero, ¿quien es Henry.P. Lopez:..? Nos lo present

. Carlos McCormick. avu

mente, la influencia cultural de

dante especial del subsecre-

He aqui lo que

tario

nos dice. toper

maestro de Har-

auxiliar adjunto de

vard:

Asuntos Interamericanos,

"Huelga confirmar.

una vez más. que. en todos Ins

del Departamento de Esta-

ördenes desde hace decadas. la influencia mexicana,

do.en

Washington:

"De

nativa o inmigrante, en el seno de nosotros, ha sido

ascendencia mexicana,

el

abogado.

Siempre destacada y visible.

Visible v destacada en to

estadunidense

sos los campos de la cultura; ya no sólo de la vida

Henry P. López ha logrado

civica:

una brillante carrera como

"Baste haber viajado por la parte sur del pais,

mternacionalista

miem-

para que hasta el mas superficial observador reconozca

Dro prominente del Partido

de inmediato, la influencia de México. En la arquitec-

Demócrata

de California.

tura,

en la musica, en la alimentación en los nombresi

Graduado en Harvard,

españoles de las

ciudades, en la

miembro

de

la eminente

étnica del pueblo"*

misma composición

fraternidad "Phi Beia Kap-

El abogado Henry P. López,

enumera. en seguida,

pa", tue el triunfador en el

los diversos capitulos de lo que él considera la influencia

concurso nacioral de orato-

mexicana en los Estados Unidos.

ria de 1942. Candidato de

:"Lo que respecta a la arquitectura. México ha fija-

su partido en 1958, para el

do la imagen de su pasado colonial en incontables edifi-!

cargo de secretario de Estä.

cios,

plazas

antuarios y hasta en poblados enteros d

do del Gobierno de Califor-

Texas. California. Nuevo Mérien,

colorado. Y aun e

nia, obtuvo una de las más

la misma ciudad imperial de Nueva York.

Hav lugares

altas votaciones estatales

como Santa Bárbara y Monterrey, en California, capa-

SIGUX IN LA PAGINA CATORCE .

Heary P. Lópex

ces de evocar tan exquisito sabor hispanico, que radie

puede substraerse a la nostalgia que todo ello produce.

española que nos dieron su varo en Estados claves: ano los Estados Unidos es colonial.

Pero no tria la influencia arquitectural de México el

donde la lucha

fue

mas intense".

La moderna arguitectura

Declaración histórica.

tambien tiene laques de mexicanidad.

del Estado

.. En California, por ejemoin, ei inin potencial

ia admirable fachada del edificio "Pelix Cartela"' "

-me refiero al de filiarsin mexicana

Este excelente arquitecto, ejerce una extraordinaria

origen-, es de un millón trescientos mil. En Texas, de

de. influencia en la arquitectura moderna de Estados tini.

doscientos cincuenta mil.

En Nuevo Metioo, cerca

"del dos, y en general, en todas las manifestaciones artisticas

ЖіСаЛО"

¿ esteticas. Acaba de ser llamado a ocupar la cátedra

eincuenta por ciento del elecioraña es de origen me de poesia en la Universidad de Harvard, donde, en estu

La mayoria de estos votantes son demiccratas. lule-

•és. pues. iel Partido en el poder. en ¿siados liriños.

• pendas conferencias. ha desarrollado interesantes teorias

el de cuidor de cerca, alentar y encauzar a esos millo.

subre el dinamismo poético del moderno dibujo estrur

•¡uial

pais.

nes de hisjanoamericanos, como los asiaa ep el vecino dos en diversas paries del pais vecino

Su genio se revela en numerosas edificice construi-

"Por eso fue que en la campaña de i9ãn, pur prime-

ra ver en la histor!a.

se crearon haiationes conociales

de mexicanas de origen que, al

Lopez añade:

gi::n cip

"V'irà Ker.

"En lo quia respecia a las artes piásticas. México a

• asallaron civicamente las car las eleriorales, senin in persiriante impsario as la mentalidad norte.

dancin al triunfo al do Nuera lagialo:'a"

dersim intermediario, MeCormira, duo prericaren..

aTericana fo.mulaios io linsare se puerien lo sopra

to el sapitán en jolo do esca "italines" do jiarica...

ducciones de cuajioa io Diego

Ritora. Juro Clemento

pira

ANTERIES

---

## Page 13

VISIONE

ENGELSiOR 16A Lunes 18 do Diciembre do 1981

ESTA

do las piletria

Orozco a David Alfaro Siqueiros:

Bur, aino en endo el pais, del uno al otro confin...

Esto no sólo en el de Juan Jose Arteo yern Ru la noveias y cuentos l

En el campo profesional, un número considerable se liaria en artals errori

pasamos al

"Y eh. mir

arte cinematográfico, de máximo distinguldo en sus respectivas actividades.

I de brillantes protestonistas mexico-americanos, se lias so debe leser tranleren do o

reciente manifestación artística;

tene

interés moderno, México puede convertirse en el cen•

porturbon projuietro to cor

mes a Rufino Tamayo y a José Luis Cuevas. Estos ejer-

Mencionemos, por ejemplo, el gran

abogado Raúl

tro de una de las más grandes producciones artísticas Magaña, de Los Angeles, que es considerado como el

Lo que nos llei a

cen infivencia de vanzuardia entre: In artistas

americancia

norte

del mundo.

Los más refinados y exigentes expectadores (mejor litigante al oeste del Mississippi.7

ontà encuesta; ot

contemporáneos".

de Nueva York, Los Angeles, Chicago y otras ciudades,

ipuedon csnxeatir. da

Prosigue López:

se han impresionado grandemente con películas tales

"En derecho procesal, en medicina legal y en tocus-

dos formas de una misma

"Los autores mexicanos. escritores y poetas, no han

como: "Macario",

"Raices"

'"Los Olvidados" y otras más!

sos judiciales, Magaña es

autoridad en todo

Estados.

presion latino y la expre

minido aun la abundante publicidad que ha acogido a los:

de extraordinaria factura"

Unidos. Ha dictado conferencias ante la Barra Nacional

pintores. Pero, sin embargo, recientemente han recibido

y en rumerosas wiiversidades.

Magaña es hijo do

un

acoplación dos jrisenes cocritores: Luis Spota y Carlos elogio al mexicano Gabriel Figueroa, como a una de los

(En los circulos cinematográficos se menciona con funcionario mexicano que fue por muchos años consul;

Fuentes.

Nada más!

camarógrafos más grandes del mundo)...

en. San Francisco: Nació en Mexico y siempre ha man-

tenido estrecho contacto con su pais de origen.

*Er triste deplorar que muchos norteamericanos se

"Y por supuesto -comenta López con una amplia!..

"En resumen, México está presento en Extados Uni-

sonrisa ni que hablar de nuestro extraordinario "Can- dos y seguirá estando Esto significa una nueva fuerza

ven aun privados. del placer de leer a Mariano Azuela, 'finflas", que se ha convertido en la atracción de taquilla social, política y cultural en ese pais vecino de usteden.

Corlos Gonzalez Peña. Jose Vasconcelos y otros titanes /más importante, a la altura de Anthony Quinn, Gilbert [y del cual doy ciudadano, orgulloso de mi origen mexica:

le lan letras mexicana:. Sin embargo, puede advertirse Roland"

no y latino...

rato, para ocupar una curren la chan

Dos pueblos, Mer

Mexien y Estadna Unidos.

plantos de Washinaton, ha hecho resaltar la

mente. la influencia cultural de nuestro pais...

milancia de la población mexicoamer

ICĐi

vard:

He aqui lo que noe dice lópez, maestro de Har.

Tecalion lecil?

"Huelga confirmar, una ver más, que, on todo lon

Kri

inily, consciente He

ordenes, y desde hace décadas, la influencia mexicana,

proyeceiones políticar.

nativa o inmigrante, en el seno de nosotros, ha rido:

personalmente

Menipre destacada y visiblo.

Visible y destacada en to

de Conz

Ле%.

más: envió

dos los campos de la cultura; ya no sólo de la vida

San Antonin para que luchast

cívica.

con ioso.

l misint Mario Moreno "Cantintos

"Baste haber viajado por la parte sur del pais,

erngein con el Partida Demicrata: 1.a victoria de Cos:

para que hasta el más superficia) observador reconozca,.

arrolleroir".

de inmediato, la Influencia de México, en la arquitec

turimalsnenle.

Inólito que un Prenldente. com-

tura;

en la músico, en la alimentación, en los nombres

parima su cersonalidad en una campaña política local!'

españolen de las

ciudades; en la misma composición

"Estati.

le actitud de Keniedy no sorprendió

étnica del pueblo".

Ine políticos.

Fra repetada. Forme ba parte de

El abogado Heury P. López, enumera, en reguida,

Finniria.

liace mucho tiempo que: sabemos

que

nin:

vi londiversos capítulos de lo que el considera la influencia

do les mraicarns de origen es derisivo: Sobre

todo eni

mexicana en. los Estados Ulidos.

Ine Fairilna

de Texas, California. Arizona, Nuevo Me.

"Lo que respecta a la arquitectura. México ha tija-

sien y Cariarado"

de la imagen de su pasado colonial en Incontables edifi-

lapes men erruera que el propio hermano

maridalarin

"atilr

actual Coral Call onta Nuevo Mete Colorado Den de

Texas, California, Nuevo Mexico,

Y aun en

nal, Mirebror!

la minma ciudad imperial de Nueva York. Hay lugares

como Santa Barbara y Monterrey, en California, capa-

Victoria

cpa de avocar tan exquieito sabor hispánico, que madle

S/c.

20 Dec 1961

AT MMMA 18348

---

## Page 14

COVAJUSI NUNSIS OOIUNIDOY 11

ENCUESTA MUNDIAL

Miria de la primora plana.

/Nosuinie sabemos

que se trala

que registra la historta del Partido Demócrata: dos mi-

Ilones y medio de sufragios".

Además, es amigo personal del Presidente Kennedy.

representan

Fue su coordinador en la campana que llevo al de

¿ Estados Unidos:

•Massachussetts a la Presidencia.

Idea suya tue el la-

Pregunta necesaria, no impertinente.

moso boton amarillo con el sombrero de charro v el

"Conozco a Gonzalez, ahora representante en Wash.

"¡Viva Kennedy!",

asi, en español, que llevaron en la

ington, Siempre se ha sentido orgilio de su ascen

solapa inillones de riorteamericanos de origen mexicano.

dencia mexicana;

En muchos de süs dürursos exhorta

Entre otros muchos cargos, Henry P. Lopez es pre

"a sus prisanos" a que visiien Mexico: a que perfeccio-

sídente de la Juventud Democrata de California, Quien

nen su español: a que no olviden sus tradiciones, mago

diceca o pido las neer A humanene Mexicorado

macas y ejemplares

Este mismo orgulio de su origen.?

se advierte en el senador Dennis Chares: en el dibutado:

ya toca un poco

Esas fronteras que se extienden hasta donde quiera

Jose Montova: y en politicos de la talla de Eduardo Roy•

que exista un hogar mexicano.

bai, Alberto Peña y otros más".

*

***

¿Erreo En restenle de Enrique Gonzalez, abocado Androl

Insistimos. Nne interesa, ciertamente. la sensibili-

¡dad política del actual nomento nacional de los Estados

de San Antonio, para ocupar una curul en la Camara

Pero ans interesa tambien. y inur particuiar-

de Representanles de Washington, ha hecho resaltar la

mante. la influencia cultural de nuestra pais..

creciente importancia de la pohlación mexicamerica-

He aqui lo que nos dir Loper, mansiro de Har-

na de los Estados Unidos".

vard:.

¿Tanto asi? ¿Una eleccion local!

"Huelza confirmar, una vez más, que, en lodos los

'El propio Presidente Kennedy.

consciente de este

ordenes, y desde hace décadas, la influencia mesicana,

necho y

de las grandes

proyecciones politicas

de si

nativao inmigrante.

en el seno de nootros. ha sido

contenido, no vacilo en intervenir

personalmente en

siempre destacada y visible.

Visible v descarada en to-

apoyo de la candidatura de Gonzalez.

Es mas: envio al

dos los campos de la cultura; ya no seño de la vida

vésepresidente Johnson a San Antonio para que luchase

civica.

codo con codo.

El mismb Mario Moreno

"Cantinflas"

"Baste haber

viajado por la parte sur del pais,

cooperó co: el Partido Democrata. La victoria de Gon.

para que hasta el más superficial observaäor reconozca,

zalez tue arrolladora".

de inmediato, la influencia de México.

En la arquitec.

Normalmente,

es

Insólito que un Presidente com-

tura, en la música. en la alimerlacion. en los nombres

prometa su personalidad en una campaña política local.

españoles de las

"Esta vez. la actitud de Kennedy no sorprendio a

étnica del puebla, ciudades; en la misma composición

los políticos.

Era esperada.

El abogado Henry P. Lopez, entimera, en seguida,

Frontera flace mucho tiempo que sabemos que el voto

Formaba parte de la quera las diversos capitulos de lo que el considera la influencia

de los mexicanos de origen es decisivo.

Sobre todolen

mexicana en los Estados Unidos,

•los Estados de

"Lo que respecta a la arquitectura. México ha fija-

xico ": Co'orado".

Texas, California, Arizona, Nuevo Alé do la imagen de su pasado colonial en incontables edifi

Lopez nos recuerda que el propio hermano del actual cios, plazas.

mandatario estadunidense, y jefe de su campaña electo-

Texas. California.

anuarios o mesion porada entena de

Y aun en

ral, Robert Kennedy, a raiz del triunfo democrata.

la misma ciudad imperial de Nueva York? Hay lugares

claró, cor toda sinceridad. y frente a los reporteros dei

como Santa Barbara y Monterrey.

en Cilifornia. capa-

mundo entern: "es muy probable que nuestra victoria

ces de evocar tan exquisito sabor hispánico, que nadie

se deba en gran parte a los norteamericanos de habla

puede sustraerse a la nostalgia que todo ello produçe.:

española que nos dieron si voto en

Estados claves: alt

Pero no inda la influancia arquitertural de Mexico en

donde la lucha fue más intensa".

las Estados Unidos es colonial.

La modei na arquitecture,

Declaracion

histarica.

tambien tiene loques de mexicanidad.

Ahi esta.

si no,

.En California, por ejemplo, el into pitencial la admirable fachada del edificio

"Felix Candela".

Esie excelente arquitecto, ejeroe una extraurdinaria

dei Festado me refiero al de filiacion mexirana de influencia en la amuitectura moderna de Estados DAt.

origen-; es de un millón trescientes mil. En Texas, de

doscientos cincuenta mil.

En Nueva México, cerca del dos. y en general, en toras las manifestaciones artisticas

y esteticas Acaba de ser liamado a ocupar la catedra

incuenta por cienio del electorado es do origen me de puesia en la Universidad de Harvard donde, en estu

icano".

La maroría de eslos volantes son demócratas. Inte.

¡ pendas conferencias, ha desarrollado interpiantes teorias

rés pues. del Partido en el poder, en Estados Unidos, 8s

sobre el dinamismo poético del maderdo dibujo estruco

el de cuidar de cerca.

alentar y encauzar a ssas millo

tural.

nes de hispannamericanos, como los ilamas ee el recico dos en diversas pailes del pais recino

Su penio se serria en numersos adificina construl.

pais

"Por pio fue que en la campana de 1900, por primie

pa rey en la historla, só cicaron talallones

dr. anten

arit, ai silles

rio

especiaied

Lopez añade:

Ken.

Pn lo que prenata a la: artes plástiras, desiro ha

arailatnn

ritmamontf

las

ras: 1198 81001019161

sanida un perdisiente impacio en la mentalidad porte

el triunto al do Nuera, Inglaterra"

americana fo milaro, do hogarea do purian ine lapin.

Nuostin inierratiaein. Nit'nimira, due precisamon, duresones de rubarra do Diesa Rivara: Jesa Clemenlo

to ві сарнам +n 1019 бо

HEID EN LA PIA DIETASTA

---

## Page 15

SECKET

MHEN MUGO 1N!

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

FID 89

87 N9/12

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect.

2. on back. Dotach back

flap and foreard to RID.

2.

Doatroy front covor sheet.

unless it

rocoids significant action

takon or

comments requiring, preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH.

If filo no. and title shown are not

proper.

insert propor file no, below

and forward docusent to RID/AN.

PROPER FILKINO.

RIDI AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. LP APPROPRIATE

CÖMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

ARCHIVED

огРіскАй

iNITIALO

WH 46

, BARTON CB

ос/он/3

B.

wx/3/m

here Cap calme

7 Dec. 1

Ресу

6-71 File cc in folder

"Federacion Universitia de

Stiedadas de Mumnes

le detached as reginal

10.

12.

13.

14.

15:

RID/FI

TRACK

RIGUEST.:

177 MR ANA PARE

PILE TITLE

PILS

AdATRACT

261-223203

789M A

---

## Page 16

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

*Ciassaint

SECRET

TO

NO

FROM

FD.MA-18186

MEADGUARITES POL MO

Chief of Station, dexioo City

11r 20 1

ACTION MIGNITIO

Edeard Go TICHBORN

Fer sour information

REFERENCES.

24. Hovember 1961

RE: 83 3- (CHECK ON ONE

MARKEU FOR INDEXING.

NO INDEXING EQUIRED.

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAURED HQ. DESK ONLY

Subject hes recently solved his foremost peroonal problems

dae Bespmat of bie perconel furniture into loxico. The cost of the

shipment was conelderably less then the amount authorized by Head-

quer tere.

Subjeot shous signs of beirg a valuable assot to the Station.

Ho will bo assigned to take over as a temporary replacement for RIKON

when the latter is on hone leave over the holidars. He very probably

will maintain conteot

on RIKCH'& return

so thet the Station will be able to utilize TIcHORN's knowleden of

3. Cenerelly, TICHBORN will be used by the Station an outside

case officer for operations in the intellectual field.

In craor to 1mrease his ability to seet ard aultivate assets, the

Station 18 athorizing TICHBORN the rental of a small apartment. to be

apargely furnished in a bohemian marnor.

and will provide the Station with regular

reports on personalities and ectivities in the intellectuel field, as

wall as run operations at Station direction.

Stiane Custo

22. Novesaber 1961

Distribution

3 - ШНО

2 - Filos

NS Guid

015390

---

## Page 17

).

To.

DISPATCH

Chiet of Station, Mexico City

CLASSICAINE

ЗЕСНЕТ

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARRIE SIR INCARINC

SHIT OUR 11.0

MARQUARTIRS DASK

CAN JUICE INCA XINE

¡ ABSTRACT

BIG ADI ILME

Chlor, Western Hansephere Priston

ACTAN REQUIRED: REFERENCES

Refs look Diapatch No, 2866, 23 October 1961

The Station will recall that part of Ecard G. Ilehborn's cover le

provided by DIPHPARCO. Before leaving for Mexico, ho net Staft Agent Mlebael

J. Skirman (p) and vas told to develop a relattonabip with DTEMBARGO and

Struan through correspondenes. It was augreatod that he right submit an

occasional artlele for consideratiun by JHWOOL (Identity 6 of reference).

2. Tlohhom has aubaitted his first artielo. Willo posalbly suitable for

publication in cartaln kinds of magazines ("The Now Leader"

"The Reporter", or

"Tho Satuday Rovicu"), It ls not suitablo for JIWOOL since it la a Journalistie

tbick piece and not a scholarly affort and it la by and largo critical of Too

Abanza pare al Progreso and the United States role In The Allanza and in Latin

snorica in general

It le therefore requested that Station axplain to Tichbors, if he brings

this matter up, that JiOOL La deatgned to support and foster United States

pol1c1c9 1n Latin Aerica and not gratuitously to critloize then, regardlees

or the purpose of the critician.

END OF DISPATCH

§CROSS RESERENCE TO

Distribution:

2-Mocdeo City

RANG. NIAL

rile

PEANI

urfa

HH/CA/E

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

15 NOw Cor

10 OY 61

ASPATCH STRASCE NED MUMBLI

CLASSIFICATION

HNS-10239

MENOQUARTERS FILE PUMBER

8302-2,3203

ORIGINATING

La sam: 1L

COORDINATiREG

cell

061 ПятІ чеКА

The Divryon

ExT.

350₴

R/HI

10/3/Marice

20787)

rarinen

dais

Pretra

---

## Page 18

DATE

3 Nov 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

i DIRECTOR

TOM , MEXICO CiTY

ACTION, IN 8

¡INTO

c00 C /c 2

CA/PRG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, COC 2, FU

Violiniti

wn/e91s

ROUTING

5

NOV 8 1716Z 61

ROUTINE

IN 19486

DIR CITE MEXI 93SS (WARE ACTING)

NEF DIR 21982 (Qut 6 6289)*

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

5291-233203

Cafy Na

---

## Page 19

25.2

--:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

A SECRET

IN 19486

PAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: STATEO INCREASED KUBARK BACKING FOR ROGUE AND FUSA PROGRAM APPROVED

IN PRINICPLE-REQUESTED ADDITIONAL INFO.

reproduction by per SEe otte premised.

---

## Page 20

Cotober 30, 1968

Deer 200,

Prparaso se nes fer is.

I asreo sla dia sons our Ditadio corsibastos an tho allane yese

1ea auch mro a "usy teador® es shoptrsa?

asthoneh I'a nos asro lt'8 ortglral mough for asbaro lea siabs, sa béro.

1ng le son, oungest te gend is to cbeo

I eeo no resoen sro in cusaloe lnis artiels dnc, sus caate siusgest Ba

do sonuthing a Uttla noro oeholarls on tha posiilenl lmilestlons or ter

Allania.

use could bo o falaly taceresttag anerclos, proviisa lo usconto

petot she talted Siaico doo dartaz.

tosmuulle, I stall ges word ort to our ortesd übrruch othes ebaosala

ezarsfgang the parpoves os ou paolicatlor

385 00

5761253203

TICHEORN

---

## Page 21

Although the ancet sound oi 20 billion dollara crealed a momentary

euphorla at the Puro del Fole conference several mecka aso, t le nou ob

rloua (bat Presideai Xennedy's proditoua "Alarza para el Progreso"

lacos a ditticalt uncertata future.

The delegatos bad scarcely reburned home when tho Gonlart-Brastlian

crials cripted and thereky threatened the very beginninga of Keanedy's hope-

ful proposal. And certalaly no seasoned ebserver of Late Amarlean poll-

Ucs con assumo that the Braillias criete hat been resolred by the quichis-

derloed modus operandi which permited Joao Goulart to asauao tha preal-

dency. Coulart Instated tho consultitonal amendncht Unitughls powers

be submitted to Brasillan votere In a r-ferendum, clearly Inalcatlag he wul

not ba content with a mere figurehead sutus. With the conservadre mill-

tristo stul adarant in tuole opposition to a tally-pomored Goulare, a ciril

war (a prolonged and bloody oce) may be in tho olflag. Meanghtle, tha ere

ators of the Alliance fes Pregress lau themsalves in a watchil, hopetal

dither

Bul alde from tha Brazilian problem, to Allanes already Bad and

ottil has a number of lasmidable obntacies which vere roadliy observable

tron the outset rally grantlag le Immense possibllitles attered by this

economic Magna Carta fer the Amertcro, li wcal be foollah te ovarlook or

2o m'ilebre tano vaste harah realistes al mbich dr camo are sot made.

Amosg to congreat realtes facing the Alilance lo the ConsTesa a1

the l'alleú States, sedicò has alaaya bean reluetaa! lo approve lund-range

---

## Page 22

sorolin aid ares belare the U.S. delegatou had returned to Washingtor,.

Senator Trusts Marbon grumply Irformed le prese laat the Repablican

Party weald kare so part of Dillon'a "Wild achemes." Thea, la a week of

nor-yor-have-ll-row-you-don't aleker lar la the House and Senate, the Al-

Mance spenders vero etres to underotand that the carto la not quite so

Danche an they retght hope.

Even sernning a more generous Congressional attliade Soward long-

range linarcing rather than year-to-year approprations, some observers

mero tricklaed to alopticlam in re Treasury Sucretery Duica's lapled prom-

1a0 of 80 bullea dollers ovst a ton-year perlos Answering the skeptca,

Dillos aasured the Pusta del Roto delegates that a large ahare of the 20 bul.

lion would cose from such already-established and soon-lo-be-expanded

agoacles aa the Excort-Import Bank, Development Loan Fued, the World

Bank, the Intersational Cooperation Administration, látarnational Fleance

Corporation and the later-American Development Bur He also expecte.

lacreased larestment by private entitles. Bat, notilthstanding such assur-

ances, certela financial experto Mer Dillon's sures as overly Optialatc.

They polet cat, for examplo, that Dillon's espoctatton ol 800 salillon dollera

from the World Bant la reallate In very of the fact that it axtended only

148 millita dallara la crodits to Latta Americs li 1980.

An for secretary Dillon's expociations lor lacreased Investients and

loss trosa pilvate sources, the adoptica would appour tu 1a70 ovas grealer

---

## Page 23

itiwi hit 18

reauon lor glooms. On August Jind of lis year Ue U.S. Depsrimenles

Ceacarcä wbilatona zopori ndlecting a sasip anprecedented crop la

privato 1.8, Iarertnents in Latin Naerlca. Wheross la 1959 sald Inyest

ments totaled 218 milllon collara. the total catapulted to a mere 95 mallllon

In 1080, s' losa of more than B0 per coat in one year. Much of the blane

for thla sudden fear can be traced to the Cuban revolutiva and the uudden

apsurge ol rerolutlonary ferror clecubere ln tie kemlaphere. Hozeter,

tlocal experte are quich to polnt out too other factors: (2) the termination

of harosalore accelerated expanaion ol claina operatioce and (8) the sud-

den deceleration af actlrtty la the petroleum loduatry la Venezuals In the

Latter case ono carnot diamtae the Iopaci ol Castro'e exproprtadan pollcies

as redected in nolghhoring republic».

Travollog throagh the U.f. (raading and hearing praus and telerislos

commonteries and talting with cartula members aof Congrets), oce gsts the

Umpreestos ibat the Allnasa'» prlesary problems wiil bo ol an aconemle na-

turo. Bat, bere tn Mesico and elsewbere in Latin America, one has the

fosllaz thal tho politcal obstacles will be equally ứ not more trozhlonome.

Tor President Kennedy and kle aldes the glae qua non of the Allanza

la a program of atructural reforma -- zcmtalutrativo, flocsi, arrarlaa, obc. -

by all or most af thi parlielpating countrios. Perhapo tro lato, the U. B.

hos realised that tie Crstroiam ii so vehemently abhore and fours seo lts

must ellocuine bano mhere agualor and dispase and sociel laluntice aroud

La tho proseace al artogaal realll aid pemar. Whereza Uncdo dam nace

:Aeeias?

aupparted and coddled tha Trwjillus, sarsanse, Jirones, otal,, 11 sow

---

## Page 24

espises pollucal and social reformo of a fundamestel nature. But le la

to tery Inglotence ca roform (Kennody han Indord reiterated the phrase

"revolation", lla penciant for soctal change, which has erated the most

akeptelem la Lalla AmerIca.

In solemn horaldle lagguage the 21 nations of the hemiaphere prom-

laed ta writtes that the nooded refurmy would be accomplaned, bat there

must haye been many a crossed flager galling the pens that algasd to tiral

document WIll El Salradar's powerful well-entronched Tourteea larles"

stand idly by while as agrartan program snatchos away their vast eatlee

platations? And what abnut the land-sich bacendados an folina. Nicaragus,

Para, Braall and other hemlephoro repubilca? For all the tagge Lasary

promtaco of baale reforme at Panta dal Este, one cannot ignore this aravald.

ablo truth! most of Kennedy'a hoped-for reforms Will sertoanly adlect the

persosal economle fortunes of the goverting cliques in the countries larolied,

One sertously dosits that these gentlemen shall willlugly presida orer tàs 11-

galdation of thety parsonal smptres. The la apite of the tact that all of them

are tally (or 81 least partially) avarè ta,, unless volantary draste reforma

aro socomplarod, thele vast boldings will be taken troma lem forcibly by

some amerging loes Fidal Cuatro. And it may well ho that their stubborn

raststance to charge la buttressod by tho milliors al dollars toy hate pra

Vidandaliy atested away is falas and American banks during the prat few

years. la short, they sasy be asgaguag la a prolongad "Dolding accos" la

the saro knowledgo that tiair dye are sumbered.

---

## Page 25

= 5=

In ang eroat, the promised agrarlan or flecal reforms may paradoxi.

cally lead to etther of two oxtremon, both of wiuch would trustrato tho staled

Latentiona of the Allurce. On the one hand, Govarmaent X might place its

program la tho handa ot timid conservatives who laterpret "evoludoa" as

"status gre with sirtual changes. * Or the whole master algat be referred

to do nothing, what's - in - 14 - for - me congressional badtes, rita ultle

or no procitag trom the steraths sranch of government. On the other band,

Government X salest inealge ta hasty laprurised mengures born of pablle

clamor and pollitcal haceidity, all of which could produce one of those algat.

mare tracaos which embarrane oper tis most erdont revalutonary. Afost

of Latin Ameries considers itselt decades bestad in the socio ecoronic de

velopment of the Woat, and the ungu to more quietly and drratleally is every-

where evident

Now a werd about kir. Dillon'a expectations in the reais of potvate

lurestments ao pert el the Allanra pura ol Progreso. Accordiag to reports

la soma ol o basicas jossarlo, prospectiro investors trom farozo, Japa

and the Untted Statoa have, certali mlagirlaga about the prograra.

First el all, theos bualacamna feol that the Allaace oftera only

monal encouragemeni los fri ate livesta ont la Labla America, Indood,

sund aro quick to palat out that ta lla initial speech at Panta dal Este, Sease-

tary Illica dd sut esco sentien privato enterprise so nor ta any ol lie sub.

seguent cummert belare so commisee on labor. Tary leal, terefore,

thai to Allaaca la orleatod tonard gorersuadal-to-goraracieat loans aad

---

## Page 26

public morra projects on maasire scales beyond the scope of lie triividual

eat Queu®

Secendly, thero's considerable doubt an to the real latentions of

Lada American governmento la so facel relam. it wil be exceedingly

ditseale, they asy, to alter the long-stradlag pattern of heavy rollance on

Import dates and stift taxes for farelin corporalicas, lacome teres are

comparatrely low and tax collection notor lously lix and abject to easy

oraalon by ladividaals, merchants and local corporalona allre.

Thirdly, these foreign Larcatore ere espectally dahlous about the

agrarian aspecta al the Alansa, They are predictably apprehensive about

expropriation of their lumonse lardholdingà fur distribution la small par-

cola among the lendlens campeatoss. (ln ble state al the unica spooch on Sep-

Lamber 181, Mertoo's President Lopss Statess reported the recent govorament

acquistes al taros luga lattuadies herotelore orned by Americans.) But

aalde fros 1 disinclination to seo thembolyes "done la", certaia coreiga

brednessa da contend that mall farias (or ejidos) are not saarly as produc-

tvo acro-per-scro sa the larger entatea - test eras the "cooperatives" of

the Pldel Castro type Will prova "azeconomic, " Ratrer than expropriate

and divido the antating bleat productive iurndios, tese gentlemen propose

Lamedlate and pidespress coloriasdon of snised lade, Tale, they argue,

voalt do aheaper becaus thora tcald he uo cost al lacematlication fur s-

proprialed properties nor a disclaatioa is productive capacity. Far ta.

reason laey far predes tao coloalaion meadupee el Pery and Braall to the

more drantle atyle al Mexico and Rairla.

---

## Page 27

- 7:

However, all of the aforementloced uncertalniles are of lean concera

then the omelpreorat & lactor, the Impact a Fidel Castro es all of Lata

Arertor. How, why, and to what exteat cia Fidellimo alect too Alang

pera el Proteco? Some cheervers feel that Castro la Indeed the real (l

not do jurs) father of the Alliance, that without bla cataclystale emergence,

the Daltol Loites roald haro contaued to Ignore the posn cousla fopsalles

of the south.

(in the 1960'g only 3% of our foreign ald want to the 21 astons

walch compriae Latta Amarica, Laos slone receired more ald than ali of

these countries comalaed) Pat, more laportaatly, the Catas premlar has

aroused the axpectstions of the heretotoro sullen manses thronghout the homalo

phers, and their respective loaders have become acately aware of the rumbllag

Alesontent, Some al thess politicon world no doabt velcome a suddea disposal

of the Castro annsynace, but sond of them weald baro partlelpated la a 307e

to spenty chastics Caba at the Panta del Este conference, An a ratter of fact,

"Cao" Corara managed to accomplich a ten minor trtumpha desyita tao cool

recoption he got trora most of the delegatos, Ills post-conference mootings

WIth Prosident Frondal of Argentina aad ex-Prealaut Quadros ol Drasli

are no. to be tuben lightly.

Althongh the Malted Staton munaged to ebtaly all of the dasired signa.

sures ca me Dani deciaratlan at Uraguay, ll would he nalge fer se to esppare

that we can ente agala coul es the herbalore sould backing ol Latin Ameries.

There 19, la fast, aa increased split al neutrallas er isdepondence (call 18

phat yoa will) throughout the healephere. Note, fer example, that carlag

---

## Page 28

= =

cho conferenco tho iban vico-prasical (00x areatdent) al Presti wad on an

veraind Kilozan a Dri Cir, Polita, Pro, Lad aont a salsaloa to Resela.

And sbortly after the conference, Prealdett Lopez Mateos told an opening

seaslon of the Mexican confess that his country has been and will contine

so follow an independent courso, tree of any adherence lo oither of the great

powers.

Il tonid agpear, thuratose, ta! the MUlance lox ProfTesa laces a

tougher and more devous course tisa the Good Nolghbor polley of Franklin

Rocseveil And 1i la equally apparent that unless tho plan does oueceed,

there will to a prolonged pertod a wrest, bloodshed and salsary - pa hap

obliTlon

D2/1981

---

## Page 29

DISPATCH

3B0E7

1O

7070

minho ano Do duas sa

mo M

1n8 2a4

085381037

3 ° 8498 0/033

** Fales

Para fi

204037843

FONTE AI M

(109 riste)

NO NOBINO FINGE)

PODINO CAN & LAIC

DY QueiRiS KO DESI GNY

Banans seis

---

## Page 30

POR FLEOSSON

JAVA coona to o to lo a goul progracto I para a erall coartall, party for

mutual irlento (Dota political and poco) to las 1 ocala observo mirata socoo

tana to a virtoty of piales comeridos latia borlas.

I would efense fron

h'o longtly costante pad maotiora to conmenta fros

ottara that ho nebld bi

hos, el corno, no debie el u mana 06 lo mi motion y te in

vay le ba'a orasectodo

has BAn 18 1n the volley disautory (10 brova ono)s

20 NATAg} ARACOH

Arpeam to be s198altaly acRi-turas deo to tho Ceben Innatan Magos. 10d

:s vosy abso pormin, but 1 doras tene bo mola do inforested is solping en

3o

Latín srtona poll tiral gatura.

rogait, resourestu, entonato end Millagnal, I mala jutra

thas ba siens da sillcg to do toma sart fos coo

42) 3010s0 #1ñe1on)

Latamara di 80120120rce

lay Erasa d. 11022011

---

## Page 31

Redeem t Tale

Naust 22, 1951.

Dear Less

As scheduied, l antivoo duck in cainearilio on the marang of satura,

Auguat 19, ready to retara ti

In revard to 2y. Moxiean friend, I sent the letter o? which you have a

cops, and ro-lniorces in vich a toleran to confinis a daco for a visit as uo vanteu to be in

Caxaca for the weekend, trune was no hopty and nassuen as the

a1t ras one callod for oy

by the courtosy of a frient,

I nade no extort to reach hia otheruise. fellaily told ne on my

roturn that she believed that the saturday and Sunday dates bare the oily ones he bad availab

Our Mexican extoor was also out of town so that i could loave aardo for b

at ale office but othervisa could do nothing.

and consulted.

with han regardins the review of his boot for ino dammas yournal Its 13 the only direct

business I could do on ry vacation otor than sbtaining cortain loads for authora of articles

ross tho newspapers and sagazinos.

of this as there are a nunbor of sateers in vach our affajrs require innediato attention.

Ada of then have been discussed tature bus the final arrancements have not yet bein nade.

I bellero we especially need to talk soout the Centro and uno Academy.

I upuld be glad to make reservations for you if you will lot as know the

dotals of your arrival.

With best wishes,

schlorin

file

-ala dies

2261253203

---

## Page 32

OR:O:

Ext

DATE i:

LAL SIN

WH/CV/F

350L

18 AUGUST 1961

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

TO

MENT: DO

FROM, DIRECTOR

con

NH 8

: 1 AUG 51

23

00.2

INGOT CA 2, CA/PRE, CI, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, CI/OA, SR: 6, S/c 2

"TO

MEXT

RES

Bo

Co

INFO

MEXT 8672 (IN 14393)*

MR 05355 (OUT 84591))

DIR L7917 (OUT 71102)

CITE DIR

DEPALEOCEN

X RQUTINE

OUT87819

07160

IO TICHBORN TOLD FINAL DECISION ON ANY APFROACH FUENTES RESTED WITH

STATION AS STATED REF B. IDEA SOUNDED INPERESTING FRECISELY BECAUSE OF

CHARACTER AND BACKGROUND FUENTES. ASSUME TICHBORN CAV PROVIDE NAME MUTUAL

"PI LID.

2• HOS REGREES FATIURE CABLE STATION REQUEST FOR ASSESSMENT, NOT RFT

NOT RECRUITMENT, NAVA AND ARAGON. TA ADVANCE HUS PER REF C.

END OF MESSAGE

IS CONIENTs #Commented on Tichborn opcrational suggestion and

requested future Hqs advice on ops assignments

given agent.

rill/ 3/Mesd,

13 K

i Nichest

•Roit. HEREiRT

AC/AHD

ORPICER

SOR10IMATINO DIN

SESBER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

million

NED P. HOLYNI

ORPICIO

Copy Ns.

0/253203

---

## Page 33

13 July 1961

MEMRAND CH FORE

Chfat

chtonl rat te prvdt Arast seetiei

TIẠI

Coatrel Cover Diviaion

Attautioni M. Milien

SIBAECIA

Eduarid Go FICHDCRY (p)r. Mrebiod af Payscant

• 16 1s regaested trat Fleaaco DIvislos p

ntra ct Agans Edwerd d. TICHDGRN (D) tmrunza Cantml Con

Divinian's mansnical

TICHBOR'g

sou ocatraot docane ottcatiro 19 May 1961

Io to requested that salary doe TICHBORN

alnco sãó efroutiro dato ar ble contraot ia paty dso ota as

possi1b2o.

sootion). Tho Dodta ftathoi barolo To direr et a a sara /t%.

Jo Go Ilog

•Chilos

Hestern Banisrbaro DiTiaion

.**.

044 153703

---

## Page 34

SECRET

EMPLOYEE'S WITHHOLDING: EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE AND QUESTIONNAIRE

NAME (Proudonya)

DaUOIN, Loward 0•

PITHMOLDING EXEUPTIONS

LNSTRUCTIONS

1. NINTER OF EXENTIONS: -Do nor claim core

the carrect number of exemptions..

than

flon,

birth.

death,

abreements.

pect to one more incone lax

for the year

thon cili

ithheld if you elala every exumption

which you

employer

bifector of

consult. your

or Your

entliled, you say

the withholding by

claiming

• smaller number of exempilons.

DEFENDENTS. " - To qualify

IN EXEMPTIONS,. You may file

person 78 at recal

. your depondens cline

nore then öne half

her support fros you

ficate de ony clüe if the number of your

Income durine me your

• neu coredficate within 10.

DECREASES FOr AnY

of the following reasons:

United Stases or a root.

and Do a araber of your

(B)

support of a dependent for whom.

lon. la raken over

dusing tha year

For further information about changes

MARRIED, one exemption

(.=.)

b)

c)

==

(a)

nophes, of niece (but only if

PENALTIES: •-Penalties

also Information or sillful tailure

which would irduce the

writo: the figure

husband and nife if not claimed on another

and blindness (applicable

only to you and your nifo bur not

exemprion

both of these exemptions,

If you claim exemptions

for one or more dependents,

not claim exemption for

dependent unless

you are qualified

under inatruction 3 above.) :.

Add the number of exemprions which

INDICATE SOURCEISI OF INCOME

Douderess

INCOME

INDICATE CONCA

PAY PERIOL

PRe YEAR ;

IMDICATE TIPRIBI OR TAXES AND AMOURTISI

DITANTLO PER PAY

U.S. TAXES 3

FOREIGN TAXESS

DECLARATION OF EST

MATTO INCOME TAT

D11010901911

n00rнe;

CESTIFICATION

I CERTIFY

chat the number

of withholding exemptions claimed on

this förn does

the

number 1o shich

I am

entitled. and that the information polarive

80

BOUTCEY

of income shoun

hereon

correce.

dIGa15 (Pipolorra)

313

SECRET

4701

---

## Page 35

SECRET

COVERT AGREEMENT SUPPL NT - INCOME AND FEDERAL TAX DA.

TITE

PRINT

7723

PSSUCONYM

ficinous, Edus id O.

PART

COMPEMSATION AND WITHHOLDING DATA

SOURCES DE COMPENSATION PAYAENTS (CARiN •

NIACOUARTERS

ALLOPMENT

14 COVeM FACILITE

COMPENS

AMOUNT SUBJiCT TO

PAYNINTS OY COVER FACILLIY

IN•ARY DIFFERENCES:

UNDER "RE-

PAYMENTO TO DISIN (DOIO)

TOTAL

AMQUAT: (POR DAnis)

18,000

BETWEEN THE

AMOUNT AND TOTAL

TYPE

OF

PAY.

REPRESENTED

ancee.

PAY PERTODS USED BY COVER

FACILITY

sENt

MONTHLY

INCOME: TAXES

TAXES. TO

AMOUNT WITHHELO PER PAY PLALOD

ITHHELD BY COVER FACILITY: FROM COMPENSATION PAIO

SECURITY (PICA) NOTAMELO

Youren.

MANK OF COUNTRY

COMPENSATION SUBJECT TO A FOREIGN TAX

COVER: FACILITY WILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLOWS 1500

FORU ".?

FORM

16

Bol0u).

WÜLL NOT REPORT

COVER FACILITY (CrYPtONYM)

THE ACENCY WILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLOWS (SPE TINO 1S DOlOSS:

COVERT irs condire only.

oalt rose of enie leoni)

FORM N.?

I LrORM 1000

NAMK AND ADDRESS OF OSTENSiOLE EMPLOYER

HAS BEEN FILED

DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED INCOME TAX (CHAC* ONO)

MAS MOT DECHALLED

PART 1I DEPENDENCY DATA

INCLUDING SELF. CLAIMCO MITM COVER

12• NO.

OF DEPENDENTS.

MOT. APPLICAOLE

CLAIMED ON

FACILITY.

MARITAL: STATUS (COMPlOLO DU APPrOPrIALO).

SIMORE.

MARRIED

DATE OF DEATH

FiDORED

DATE OF DECREE

DIVORCEO:

LEGALLY

SEPARATED

ANNULLED

RESIDENCE OF SPOUSE (COUntrY)

CITIZEMSHST OF SPOUSE.

1*: DEPENDENTS

ELIGIALE

•CLAIMED

oF

TO

BE:

DEPENDENTS

FOR FURPOSES

iN NUMBER

DECLANED

ABOVE (O-1?

FILING TAX RETURNS MHO MAY OR MIY NOT BE INCLUDED

and apouse).

REMARKS

APFROVAL OF CENTRAL

COVER DIVISION

The employer's names and methods

for

reporting compensetion

shown In Iters 8,

and, or 9,

above are approved.

DATI

DIGHATURE AND TITLE

DISTRIDATICA:

510.80

FORM PREPARED MY

19904

CORRECT

DATE

13 sly 61

CERTIFIED

SIGNATURE OF.

OFFICIAL

Ho Lahmans Suith

PART II

DATE

CERTIFIED CORRECT

SIGNATURE

UT PADIVIOJAL (PO0

(008 avallablo)

490009Y.

FO FINANCE:

TO CENTRAL COVER: CAFY • TO VILE

SECRET

1301

313ª

---

## Page 36

TH.S PLANA PORN IS CLASSITIRD:

SUBJECT (NAME,

1O ROMAS LETIERS AND IN NIMI

# onry P. Lopes..

C-1711901

ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS.

CIC NUMBERS, LIC.

Enrique Precillano Lopos

SECRET

3. BIRTH DATE

28 May 1920

1. BISTN PLACE

Denver, Colorado

S. CITIZENSHIP

USA

6 PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Representative of Produeciones Merk IV7

Molchor Ocampo 463, Mexico D/7, Mexico

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST

N° 111621

7. ruly 1961

DATE OF REQUEST.

REQUEST FROM

NAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER

H.Lo Suith

OFFICE DESIGNATOR WH/PO/B

ROOM, BUILDING: 107 Barton Bell

XIINSION 3503

M MAS CONTINUING SERIC REQUESTE NO

15: TYPE OF REQUEST

ELrIRST TiME SUBMiTTEO

• ADDITIONAL DATA

_COVER

16. INTEREST IN SUBJECT

_ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

-IL OPERATIONAL CLCARANCE

OTMER

I7 INFORMATION REQUIRED

Deroratory

LOCATION

7. OCCUPATIÓNAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Lavyers politician

Graduate of Univ. of Denver (19ll,) and Harvard

La y Schoal (194 8); attended Graduate School

of seon at Marvurd (194 45) and Inlversidad

Nacional de Peodco (1955)

SERVICE, ARM. COUNTRY

Army, Unitod States

SPECIALTY

Modica? Carps

%. PAST OCCUPATIONS

ACTIVITY

Self-employed attorney

Attornoy (H.D, Yagaa)

Attornay (Rational Labor Relations Board)

Payoblatric Interviever (Harvard Medical School)

LOCATION

Los Angeles, Cal,

Boston, Mass.

DATES

1942-1i4

DATES

1953-61

1948-53

1948

19420-26

10. DESCRIPTION

(NEIGHT)

5'10°

11. SPOUSE (IF. WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

(WEIGHT)

175

12: OTMER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCiATES

(EYES):

BrosT

(HAIR)

Black

(RACE)

Horta

(OTHER)

13.

OTHER SIGMIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, CIC)

Active 1n California Stato Denocrat Party

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDEO

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

SEE CS1-10-7

.. 501•00

SECRET

201258,303

---

## Page 37

SECRET

TO: WH/PO/D W. L. SWITH

FROM:

FI/D See

17 Jul 61

DATE

B.

c.

Zu.

E.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A MEMORANOUM IS ATTACHEO HERETO.

WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDEO IN THE REQUEST, FI/O IS UMABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

F1/O HAS NO IEACON INFORMATION OM SUBJECT. IS A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS

REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUSJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO.

YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, HITH THE FOLLOMING CAMCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULO BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/O THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LÖNGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND À CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO MOT TIE UP FI/D'S

•FACILITIES WITH CCNTINUING SEARCHES FOR IMFORMATION THÄT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

NJME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

200м.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 38

•jJ

ORIGI

UNIT

EXT

DATE:.

Ban

EVANS

305k

9 JUNE 2951

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONE,

WH 5

INOr CI, C1/OPS, F1, S/c 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-5-C-F-8-T

CIUDAD TRUSTILO COR PATIONA ACIDIATS) LAPOR MEXICO GITT (ROTES)

ES 15 482

POUTINE

CUT$4603

CHU J (OPIM)

INFO

MEXI (ROUTINB)

CITE DIR

44408

RBRS MEXI 8186 (IN 21801)*

44438

LOPEZ DUE TO ARRIVE TRUJ 405 PA PAVAN FLICAT 431. MILL FROSAELI STAY A1

E BAJADOR HOTET AND HAS PEEN TOLD CONTACT RAYNOCE UPON ARRIVAL LOPSZ CAN

ONLI FINAIN TRUS TARBE DAIS, EUT WILL PRORAELI BS DELS RETUIN SEDETLA AFTER

18 JUNB.

WH/Corments

END OF MESSACE

*Discussed efforts LOPEZ obtain visa and observed tire inadeguate

for full assessment situation. (LOPEZ and FAYNOCK well acqualnted

from previous contact in ilavana.)

in felitm

KI0, C/A

PRODUCT

iR/COPS

500100

Estadio

IMO OSPICIOS

HED P.

AN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEL

INICIE

Capy to

311 210203

---

## Page 39

DATE :!

099

JUN 6

TO ?

*DIRECTOR

FROM

SAN SALVADOR

ACTION: WH 5

INFO 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET,

nana cc 253203

ROUTING

AB Tin that me

No Co Proard Vale Dureroy.

RJ Ale isla copy Me latisseod

Branch copy tid es tidine

- JUN 7 06527 61

ROUTINE

IN 21305

DIR CITE SALV 3791

REF HSSS -323

EDMA

1. REQUEST AUTHORITY SHOW, TICHBORN REPORT TO AMB WILLIAMS ONLY,

WHO HAS ASKED IF ANY SUCH REPORT AVAILABLE.

AMB FAVORABLY IMPRESSED VITH TICHBOR

STATION FEELS

TICKBORN VIEWS AND EVALUATIONS SI

AR

O AMB'S AND WOULD BE OF

INTERREST TO AMB.

END OF MESSAGE

ROUTING

RI/AN

RI/TV

INITIAL

BR

R/A

1389

241-253263

REPRODUGTION BY OTHLA TRAN THE LASUING OVICE IS PRONIBITEO

Capy Na

---

## Page 40

MACHET

File TubinFil

POUTING

JUNE 195:

• DIRECTOR

FIXICO CITY

dr.

?

JUN 6.22542 IS6l

(TEMPO COPY ISSUED MR. SMITH WH 1935, 6 JUNE)

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 21119

CHE

TAICA

OPI: DIR CITE MEXI 8172

PEr: DI7 43275 (OUT 62337)**

1: LOPEZ PRESENCE LOS ANGELES REGUIRED 14 TO 18 JUNE.

2. HIS INQUIRY DEVELOPS NO VISAS TO CUBANS OR DOMINICANS

FROM MEXICO. VISAS FOR AMERICANS FROX MEXICO VIEVED ENTREME

SUSPICION.

3. LOPEZ SUGGESTS BETTER HE TRAVEL FROM LA TO CU AFTER 15.

JUNE USING PRETEXT REPRESENTATION AMERICAN INVESTMENT INTERESTS

BUYING UP FRIGHTENED CAPITAL.

4. PARAS 1, 2, 3 NOTWITHSTANDING SHOULD HOS WISH, LOPEZ WILLING

DEPART MEXI IMMEDIATELY FOR MIANI, ATTEMPT OSTAIN VISA FROM MIMI

TO CU.

5. PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT :* DISSEMINATION APFLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

*• REQUESTEO STATION CONTACT MR HENRY LOPEZ INSTRUCTING HIM

GO CIUDAD TRUJILLO TO FILL OUTLINEO REQUIREMENTS.

REST.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUENG OFTICE IS PROMIRITED.

201.253203

TICHEUEN

Sey Na

---

## Page 41

14-00000

23 Hay 1963

MAYORVIDUX POTI ChloS, Central Cover Group

ATPeSTION

tr. dean l. tillca

Building T-b, Hoon 2-100

SUBUNCT

REFERENCE

donard Go TICHeut (p)

Honoranca Iron Outal,

Who to chiot, Central Cover Oroup,

Sase Subjeet, dated 22 May 1951

subjest will he esployed as logal compal r

nunited states eliteen who li: the ouner

securll elaarances are being

snitlaked

Gat joot aill alou to providod with a backstopping letter fron

8. C. AIRO

calal

Yestern Marlaphere Miriaton

---

## Page 42

.. .

22 May 1961

MORANDUA TORe Centrel Covor Diviaton

SUEJECtS

Ecbrard do TICHBORN (P)

1. Echard O. TICHECAY (F) has been reaselenad Iron the

CA SLarI to iN DivianI, for the past coula of vear Siblact

has been usins the notloal cover firm

as a backstop sor services persored for the

Agendy.

2 Wu Dinado will requiro a cover firm for backstopping

purposes under sICilORi's new contrecti and say therefore request

continuing use

Tosas l, AcCoy

detrag Chie!

Political Action Droup

covert Action Stars

ACHI CHABL

DistrIbation:

: Orts. & 1 = CCD/B‹

1HN.

I - Chirano

tried toile

2as30+3

---

## Page 43

SECRET

22 May 1961

HEMORANDUH PORS Contract Payrali Division

SUBJECTE

Edward Q. TICHBORN (P)

1. Pleaso cancel Edward Q TICHEORN'a present contract

effoctivo as of 19 May 1961.

2.

A non contract for Subject will be requested by the

vH Division in tho timediato future.

Thoarg F. McCoy

Acting Chief

rolltical Aotion Group

coveir action Stall

07255503

---

## Page 44

SSORST

22 May 1961

MEHORAMDUN POR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Flual Arrangesente for Eduard G. Michdom'a (P)

Contract Status la Herdeo.

REFERRICS: Memorandun for tho Recard, dated 17 May 1961

1. When I talked vith Pickporn (P) on Wedneoday, 17 May,

to armanor s nesting with klia for kosara, Collina and McCoy,

he stated that ho was most anxlous to leeva on Saturday for

Moxico City and vanted to knou 1x floal detaila could be

takes care of at or arranged seeting on too lith in arder

that he could depurt on Saturday, the 20tb. As I told Tichbora,

I sas sonerhat surprised toat be planes to leave no roea

although I did know he vas anxious to set pottled as soun

no posalble. I said I vould do everytains possible to take

tho final arrangemento do that be could leave as be planned.

2. Ao a result, Mr. Charles Penney, WH/CA, Mr. Micbael

and the undersigied of CA/PAO, ana Pichborn set triday tbe

soro at the

to talk about the cerses us

at shel acunto connected with che

of:

tibe

met Fleara durlag the brtestag.

Fals

souvuual did attend the creslag briefly and 1t i8

asslalpatos that perhapa at a lasar caro, ebla arjanirazlos:

Mens be uperul as cover for pictura la dose or lie endeavoro

esd eight also bo used as a velela sor bringlay prunloing

29: 5331D

---

## Page 45

Most of the time was taken up vith talklad about

tro yoer contract covering Son at ala time, and vill ba

paid a salary of 18,000 per aumn. In addition, for asy

trlpo made outolde Moxico la cornection vito blo assignmente

be will receive travel and operational expenses plus ver dien

Be will aloo receive milesgo for his autonobile uhon it 1a

used in the course of duty and will be relmbursed for any

gees related to his reglitering (probebly as an euditor)

at the Univeralty of Mexico, Poletechico, etc. in commection

vith bla pasterest.

He vill pald on a posthly basis,

probably sending & check to his beak la Los Angeles.

Detalli

need to be varked out on the cover fira to be used in making

such deposite and this la being taken care of by both PAG

and VED (16 alist be posithle to use the sore firs as in

tha past,

Tchborn tas

also advised as to song Its nich cannot be clared

under "operational expensed" such es air flight lasurance,

purchase of personal clothint, parklas of eutorobile valle

on TOY, broken eye-elasaes, otc. He vas also told that

any questimable lters shoald be checked out vith his Station

contact aid all rouchera and subalinion of aconting vould

be nade to ¿bat perava.

4. Pichborn vas tuld that he vould be contested on

Eba Borol Mustejo on avonida Reforma, ba can also be reached

by leavlas a nessage at hollo forgo, Reforma 6. Bo vill leo

ba lectetarily eployed as legal representatire by

A clearance le being obtained by Vi on

althougs 18 la sot planned to nate his witzlag of I1chbarn's

activition.

---

## Page 46

Si

' La Clao anticipated that be vould

De und tras time to time to assess the seneral political

situation la various Latin Anorican countries, as be bas done

1n the past, ad perhaps also to act as advisor i5 election

operatzone when such need artses: Subject brought up the

subject of Mexican polities and stated that during his

converartion with Mesers. Collina and McCoy they bad stated

that it ould be halpful if he could nake contacts vith

In order to mburt on the political

particularly.

I chected this out today vith Mr. MoCoy

end he sald that subject bad exacecrated a bit and that

this vas unly Macussed in omeral terns, end that they

bad specifically tola richoorn that bis operational

Instructiona vould case fron the Station.) Mr. Pennoy

told richborn in this connection thet he should only

concentrate on student affairs for the time belog and that

1t vould not be to blo advantagn to began working in

a feld which is already being covered by the Embassy and

the Statlon.

It lo thought that ho will evestually be

eased tato thle type os activity, but he should not engage

In such sotivities until be receives a go-shead frog blo

contact. Subject understood and served.

6. WaD le nov writing up the contract and it vial be

sent to the Station for Mehbor's aignature. It wiil bo

dated 25 Hay 1961. Mr. Penney has agreed to anow this

contract to CA/PAO prior to forarding it to the Btation.

Otbor than clartrying cover arrangarents for his conthly

Balary deposite, thers are no outstanding batters to be

settled in connoction vith Tlahborn's contract status.

valena B. VIdal

PUlItIcal Action GrOup

ESVIdal: sa

DiatrIbution:

1 - Chrono

1 - Wa Div. (Mchbusa tila)

d - Vidal 81l0

---

## Page 47

22

Nay 1961

IBHORANTUM FOR: CAlol, Contreat Persomel Divlatoo

SURJECI

Now Contract for Bchard 0. TICHBORN (p)

G77119

Preparation of a nos coatract for Subject is requested, to be dre

up ca the basta of the attsched Contraot Information Chock Liot.

IS.P.W.H.

J. C. EXNO

Cal ef

Hestern Hemlophere Divelon

---

## Page 48

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

Do TA Ta

for:.pro"

GENER

SEE, E

109

EXPOPLAR -20

RD. "PARMANENT

PSEUDONTE OR ALIASES

Suas Ladi

0e8 1959.:

SECURED CHEAT

ICE (TYPO.

MOURS A

"ORK UNDER "CONTROLLES

MONE

ANO PERFORMED UN

STAFF. ACINT

"ested Slates

CITA

ALTEN

17- MARITAL S'ATUS (CROCK

approfriaro):

COUNSLE

!"- MUMBER OF DEPCHOENTS (NoR including individual,

RELAZIORSNIP

sor to.

and tar

LICO

¿Cantract

"28

1920

CURRENT RESIDENCE (LITI

ARNOLLED

SEPARATIO

M701

"RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE.

STAFF

CAL ATION SHIPS

A CURRENT TOR

ORXING FOR THE SCENE NONE OR

•SECTION

20. RESERVE

VETERAN

U.S. MILITARY STATUS

Lay Sedat Carpe

SECTIONIS

DRAFT ELIGiB

50. POST. DIFTERENTIAL

000.00 per Tro lA.

COMPENSATION::

29: COVER (Brcondows, "l ony>

1161.

SECTION'.V

I• QU'ARTERS

HoA.

34: COVER (Breakdown, il any)

Al LOKANCES (NORNtIV

CRANTED ONLY TO:

Ja: P051

HoA.

SFETION VI

INDICATE SATECORY

888

CONY, BORE:

TO DE MITHHELD BY

UNITED. STATES!

TRAVEL

Pooritie orrestronsi

Misition one

FRECTS TO dE SHIPPIO

'CASONAL VEMICLE TO BE SHIPPED

Dies

TAANSPORIEO VEHICLE TO BE USED FOR:

ORATIONAL

Mig no

---

## Page 49

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

SER FASTRUCTIDAS DO FIRST SHEET.

Had.

SECRET

BENEFITS

2-:

COVER ACTIVITY

3051

÷ TYPE.

(Check)

33 M

SECTION X

SO. OFFSET OF INCOME

AND OTHIN

Attached hereso.)

SECTION:XI

51::

OFFSETSON INCOME

81201

•DURATION

.. 1) на 196 A

S3- DEMENABLE:

SA:, TERMINAT ON NOTICE (Number Of dayo)

30 days

T99. FORFEITURE OR RETURN TRAVEL

FIA NSSIGNATION PRIOR. TO CONTRACI

SECTION XII

FUNCTION:

PRIMARY UNCTION (FI. PP. other)

C.A.

SECTION

X110

37= GENERAL DESCA

DUTIES

PTION OF CUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

Sab foot uill spot and assess

Joot will travel throughout the Henspauro In

postloaL

Sab

acsion alasted as directed by

SECTION XIV

QUALIFICATIONS

50 =

• EXPERIENCE

Subjeet bas ourried out several high lovel politieal setice as

KUBARK in Latla Anerten and other areas. He La particularly person

of political technigues.

SuS8 1OT

In

scrising

39. FOUCATION

Sighes

cheet Mishrad

LANGUAGE

•COMPETE

86m001

SCHOOL

¡Mo doereo)

iGGAGE

Spontan

Check Appropriar,

Degree Competency

AREA KNOWLEDGE

SECTION XV.

69. 108

AND SALARY

PRICA TO SERVICE POO CIA

PRIOR EMFLONMENT

Subjoc8 10, la privato lan prestlea.

SECTION. 341

ADDITIONAL

ACOLTINAL IAICAUATILA

120 3?

INDIVIDUAL'S

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

Unfted Statos

14000000)

Subjoct u1ll to achorleed to audlt courses of instruction la univeralties

In Mexico CIl en a talmurtablo basia, in falfillians do objoctlion inder

12001m

Done a dinover do

---

## Page 50

File Ticin File

С. С PAHKT

3503

DA

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

8B0B83

1667

31-9109 dE

DIRECTOR

44 5

22HNG 1]

848

DEREAREO

CA 2, CA/PRG, CI/QA, OP 2, S/C 2

TO M50

da s0s(1158552

INFO

OTt ON 413031303

1O SOUARD O, SICADORI XUNA A ISPARORD MASE 20 MAY JOR NEX MITRE IS MOL, NE BIPLOLEO

43 таль соц до ISA B.

2. TICINORI RAS BOSS USED BI KUBASE AS POLUTICAL AUVISCR CE BIRETTOI OPS. PRICE

SEPARTUNE NOS D

ESCOSSIO CONTRACT POSSTBIOLITIES MUTER NI AND MORENO PREPARE OOSTRACE MUNSE

MILL ES SEAR MISCI FRAR FUTURE FOR SUGHATURO

3. BOS ARTICUPIS ESULO CICIBORE AS ROSSO POLITICAL ADVISOR PROPLODIO VARIORE PURA

BRAFIOS NETE GUIDAICE CI ELEORIO CPS. LILI ALSO USS RUN TO LEVELO SUADER QUENTATEL

VARIOUS COLETRIRS AND MAY APPONE ALM TIRLO NEP POR DESTRARDO.

30 POMATINO PROPOSED COMERACT ARD MOROS ISTATES RE POESTILE USE DI URAR YURURR.

IROUSSE STATION OFFICER USTIO HARE CYRARE NELSONO GALL PICHBORN AT NONKE SCHERIO, RECAILA

CI 19 MAY SO ENTAMOSI DITIAL CORTACT. ASTOPTINO BATE COITRICE NISC IN THAT SOR

BID OF MISSAR

5. 6. 200

0/en

A!

in

Trate

Balent

+ 856853.4

ANTUBUPICATIMO ORDICON

Capo Ma •

201-333203

---

## Page 51

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

UNIT

G.O. PENN

3503

DATE

22 MAY 196J

ASIACo aFt

FROM, DIRECTOR

•COND WI 5

CA C, CA/PRO, CI/RA, OP 2, S/C 2

INFO

RFE DIR 41303 04T 5855 2

POUTING

.5

7n9 %, Tie

BUT TEN COL

ROUTINE:

at so 01158533

CITE DIR

156/ 304

AND POLI

do Co. Kia

c/am

Cha/PO/B

COORDINA

SBOBBS

cras

NUTES

IMTICATIMO DEPICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

Copy sa

---

## Page 52

37 May 1362

ISHERUTUS JOR THE RECORU

CV/PAO Arrengemente for Contract Rapingernt o

SuaN d. Plebicon (f) by wil or IOD.

Palut fi icavins or Til Mr Davlo asked no t2

sTanis luertien for Eavard G. Tieblura (P) vith butt in

Ral TOp tor the purgino ol tryine to erranco Ageacy cuntract

en lopseat car hia li additiva to bio recitinate cecuretioa.

Tibbon (P) has beca canetian a molstical appolatect fros

the aou sostalstration and in Artl or thla year left Ico

Mage las and brousht ble lanily to Vashinute in this consection.

Be kao seen sent on tus tot hisstons in tie i anen durias to

pass too years and was very mucero-ul la bit. Be toeis

abas he could be of stoal asslatanco to the Apacy la las

riture la the latin Aerican ares, and la sereo. Accordinaly,

tro iccarisova vero arranged le ala la oruer lo set ia

sureshing di this nature.

It sions be unchal to carnat ba woat jut posalbilitics ano

aval laste do Tichhore (P) Jutaide the Agency. Accareles ti

bts, a sortels as "ejecial nostetaste so los Dirocar de latin

AusTicon AsTaira in USIA bas Doon created for L1o. Pleboora (P)

18 out, dueves, anziuo zu accent tota posteria Binco aus

"sauty" a mady extors and briction voild massacly arise

anã aloo be vould be coced la ventilast u: Scoundis, there 19

a pesiulley d colas assleed no couty direcus or che

ICA alonica du a labla cuntry such da Chlie. Tickbam(?) 18

not lateraton la stus panizion nicher slace than vaid so car

to bo listio stanco di scrusiciont a to has alas bren dirtaed

31. 353203-1

---

## Page 53

by

adme Cu

ourevast

othar

1610

1n

na tur

(0

tret, but persepo least cestrable 58 Chese

out we are or big ova finds) so co

nonist sons catacte ta deu Tort La establiantos ca Savestscas

ouncera za Lasta Acerica. the antn adieulage of this wuld

be Leat be would be travellng thevughut the area on as

explumtiry basts: Tos secuid of laces an gormarutal

duestlure, and the von sbich la it puseat auat to fichsura'a (P)

1sting is logal repnocatativa fur

tram: throught taila

tierica and muld al the pase sino leave bla ira to devots a

considerabla acuunt pe tiao to overational activitloan le

zata drav-beck in that the alary (uns-clited) apparatiy 1o

aut adoquate or cuencasarate du the lacoco Picadora (P) las:

dartved mon bte law praction in tao past.

3. :

As to Tremora's (P) present situation, ba la Bartous

to firt settion as soon en posaible and la valtiis to deteralae

our actus, lateras ta using his before Do eases a decision an

to unica job offor to accept.

Xe 10 sot vorking ta rule inturla,

althinich be bao lent doscone 1a bia lay arise on the dest

Goess and doen dertie ause tacoe serons, tich la asutarr

ractar la bio honias lu dotalo sa answr tros un as econ sa

posalbio. Also, be te leopararily reattas a base la arlington

and would ttke very such to set hia raali sure or less percancatly

Bettied asd hue children da Beast.

4

Tato riture uas of Slobborn (P) tas subtratod to MED

arid

IOU Lu ErRoTal cersa a leu veesa dgs and duba sypenred intercater,

aad

vita

Win for SNay, but thie sosting we camelled due to other

meetines which arose vitaln wid. asating vero then arreaced

and bold vith Mr. lictensilla of 10/6 va 6 My sad vits lor. Pornor

05 WH/CA 002 Mav, buth ar watch vere ball ai tho Marrfost Notr

Hutel, boy Bridge.

The couversetions vere very revardiag to all

concernoú and 10/6 apreased ou Literret li Tichbari's naklag la

---

## Page 54

the student fiod la the til are, but colt that it vould taxo

a inues of aix sonths to arrenue, which wald not ba the

best asiation to the current done at band. V3 le oiss latorested

13 Laving Tichbura (P) vora in this Stole aad Sublocs la noat

sarased about thia punolutilty.

3. Prehbors (P) hua several overational 1dgn8 tich should

Do of laterest to the clandestino services.

Oce abat wich

he recis very cessagly and vhich be stranned vaen tauklag to t0/6

(stadesto) vao that he roeta a breat deal recalns to de ecoe

she student and profcanor flaida.

Amons other rolated surecations,

feele tost more politically moistne studente snould to bruent

to the U.8: fox study:

In order to accupliab the objectivo of

enociug much potential icanors to a cous,, be feeis a thorough

azurtlas progres ahaild be wdertaken nad that the critaria fur

Belectios of such Individualo shouid be boned on thia votential

meher than da cat acadese recorda ver ag bich l0 the current

besto for eclection in current enchange prospace. He feola, nad

reunily so, that soud mades nos asceanartly soronus vith

leadorohip galitles.

In latta wolversities got atudents spend

euro diac on thelt wistical activitics tan they do on theis

acoresto work, and it 1a anony this triüs that the potentle?

political leadoro are tound, hance, a neu set ut criterla ars

accessary in order to sallaly vur regulreceate and laturcata.

Pichbora (P) aigo Scole dat profesnars could bo recruited to

asslot in such sporting end aiso tint them shula bu on exinided

exchange of such ladividuala tü tho U.S. Our errorta alone theac

Haes vous not confilet with those exchange process already a

erfect ninee our objectivea wuld be elffarent und too type of

arubeat or professor lavolvea wula do of a disreroit calibro

and sature. 10/6 sit that Nichbora (P) Lan mich votential alone

there lions and vos very such lateritea la blo loed per se The -

iy airticulty they forsav fos tie present to that they bave

no organization in exiatrace

under which such an netivity waile

be uncortakca acd hence, se it vero perced to follow un outale.

soco find ôf a privata Instilution or arcanization vould bave to

be ostablished and this wails roguire as leest six noache.

6. Too sectlas with Ar. Pemey of va who wet Brulthul.

Mr. Pooney felt that Ficübors (P) has sono very latmenting operational

ideas and that due tu hile backeround, angearance; lancase, experienc

ent sacipe ablifiles, cte be vould be of iefinita value to waD

(ir, Overst, Mi/c/ca bad aies revlovoly exurined this saue riev,

airch de laú not porsunally not Surfece), My. Meansy cas told

ul Subject's ideas n student pracesour activitles surel 1a jara-

Ensen s above, and sell loat it could be il coplait laterzai to

---

## Page 55

100 91110100.

la adulttin, the passistlity sao discussod to

sneral ters of ulritis Ticaura (?) la naother carselty

the arco:

Into, bovoves, und on y scationed an o docondary luca.

Is subject vore utilized to che studeas professio peld, bo wuld

Testero also de calied prun cron lice to tino to naslot ta

folical ratiore (ouch on necasing the political, eccue on he

one dude la the cast, asterlas to election actintico, otc.)

abrueluur latto Anerica on a care or less one-tizo basle.

Dalogent by HHD Of Plehbora (P) la the atudant field would

Do ou a hale lao baels and Piebbon (P) vali eccent the joo

offer vita tric

santicaca 1u

jaragraph i quore as leErslate op bysent vich vulê siou

serve es cover.

7• Ar. Collino, C/CA, auscated that vo aldit aloo

consider blin lo comection vita a aeu political trantau uf

iberal, descertle, anti Cacturet political parties throughout

Latla Aerica vich la preseatly uader conlisra let

Go lina felt, ond rightly Do, thee thie o erotion sould perat

this nill utilization os Tichburn's (P) talenza in the political

riota. Conscqueatly, I chockod out this possibility with No.

Peary who attend that be would be an excellent choles fur such

an asslenseat.

He succoted that I talk aboat this russtule

project in zure detoll sith fr. Harloy Durtlo of Wl/l, Vaich I

asd.:

ir. Dartin stated that lata operation ta otili la tho

preparatory rtes and that a project cust be aproved, to wilch

wald take a ainian of lo coyo so bro verto. (Too luca vas

moently susseated by Adole Berle to C/VI and a socher vis anot

to ali vi rivia stations, doe quration of vother suca a few

cuuld be under the curtrol of Stain on CIA vas resolied on la lay

and is under our furisdietion.) Once this project la dos un,

the position for which fichuor (P) vould quality (eart or e

maloon betion the vartous fartios cortetre thie crouptag)

wuld be rull-ture and would arosably bo based la Caracao:

The

seberuing fos this projoct is suri matus at tho duant and 13

has also not boon deteruland vother chla slut voud se rilled

by a staff arplugon or by a cuatract ascal. In other vurds, the

¿lactable nod desatis are still uncertala. Beverthelms, vica the

in vague teras (that 1t vulia be full-tico, voula be on a hliber-lovel,

vould da sure la the strictiy sulliscal cloia ded that to vuld

probably do based in Curacao 18' he very nocepted la cale consetion).

---

## Page 56

Plcbboru (P) chougtil it over and carled ce on 15 May otatias

that duo v, tbs hich cost of livins there ba would need a les

nh hnt n là mạt kiệi hà o tại tan cin eaco cid

ObL or setlca la bto oun proseoaton.

Vith Mr. Durfia to colcfaine what ssiary peyzeat tbey vrre coa.

sidertog Por chla position, and ha oretod that inc matag a 11/1015

attivanco, le wuld arobably anouas 1s betvece 220-25,0001

eichuuta bo mea no suro os toe cimur llgure. Os 16 May I rolayod

this taroruatios to Pichbors (P) Plue tho fait that suthino

dartalte os tbe sbole projact wule de knoua for au least ten

dayo.

B. Pichbam'o (r) eroonal dectalos on these roeeibtlities

as ho rolayed tbes to se by pasas on 16 May une the folluine:

Blnce VID had statea after ralcing lo hta thac lt 1o dotiiltaly

etcrootes la hlo varklar in tbe atulent-morroser rioid tarouphoat

Latio Averica

vitd the

mne opice he bad cunfimad by phoring Hoxteu City that that joo

orfer sue still ojeu, aince be arafere half-tive hevey eaploycent

and aince ha ta enclous to ba nettied an aoon da possibla, ba

vould pruter to accort this ferticuor esslerent. Siace lr.

Penney bad Laforod de that lacy vouia bo roady tu úlscuro teruo

sas slen a cintracs ot eu tinc, I sald that I woaid sirange for

such a mroling. (Is this connection, ltr. Davto bad ventluaed t)

Bablect ln cacral tena that for balf-ttre ea lopent be aluat:

woesve oprortcately $12,00 salary, & had checkes sa13 cut vizh

Wl and tbay mid the thrit solas roto fur such ostiopient is

83,000, vith aily o very ollvit le esy. ponaibility ot a $10,000

f1gure. Hetace,

I reiayed this lasorcatloa tu Plehbiom (?) vho

safd thet to vould tiro to rais thia over, but curc ou ledo talled

Chat tho 88: 10,000 ra1oz vouid be sccoptoble.) Tichbura (r) eadod

chat trno taatleato de sureent activicies co dlacuesed vica

Io/E la sot up ot a lator dare, be vuld aleo de luterceted la

NCTHInE INN 18.

S: a tho seanelee, on 17 8Ry, 1o/3 called no tu aoy tret

higy alao hed sn jub roscibliluico

x0 81chbury (P) olace Chey

had been inrarces of bin thrawh Mr. Mclauhlln of I0/6. I raikod

tu Mr. Cmer about onn pssistalüy valch I felt vouid aut bz

of interest to subjoct aurdo adulsed thes. sais iaroired eoe

JeAi II duRoni ulia A leial backuruna tu tali vitt cuben eziles

verzyrt umiy sugüt de 1a iba 0.3. ün latin Abericn eud to sun

acilianles iyn tnos cunsertilic icgal srarcotlus er juseico vtich

havti, ard aro, occurraila cuia; tuls injoraticn vill tacaa is

pucllabod in buablos rom. sala esaleant suuld inot irolasly

RuE durper tun bonce surtio, dod do viaula nie do di lacirose to

BleDura (P) Mio lo resy aiuliua in te , ercaroutly setaial. 29o

-5-

---

## Page 57

7 abover

that to elitial cared in se

y In far tila purpose untia sio tsu divialoos bad cotta

together to see where such untieston lay--If ladcel thero

in sty coestion, Than in. Wiitens sung otes thit portas

richara (P) could be utfite in camartian vith the Inatitute

and susa at its expanded activities.

The ilsetntie for this

Fatter more.

I lafiard they that Subject had ulte

natary aircady decided on en essencess vith bit, but that

we certainly Airscteted their laterset and voula let tben

low that his reaction alight de.

(toen I spoke ty atone to

Pickburs (P) Last sane noraine, I told tsa toat two olser.

resistlisten tight exit, but toat I ald ant yot know the

deteris ci soat they cioat so.

Ee sald that Insolar as be

tas successed l deed not bother to check thes ait es lie voa

not literested in the wmD essisceit.) Since the first offer

18

so a salted tiao, alice che secono lu a purcedictional

patter 90l Subject has alreedy stated be vauld not do laterested

siss assieroent, nia pince se calra la rague es to trio:

table, I reai Piebbara (P) sould not be laterested la any of

ches: ponsiblities.

for. Caliins and bir. MCor lo sort with him co 17 bay st

The zerose of tita roelns is to got

acyeisted tich Tiehbor (P) asa to diacuse succ of tila 10000

a recting vith lir. Penary, Subject and aysell on 18 lay at 3 p.o.

as sha BiTs salth. At lata Desting, financlal terres, persitona

tetalio axi related sibjecta vill be dalined la aruer chet a

contracs su de ultica so dua es puasible. Peculta ai this scerlas

vili be es subject as a sojarate sscorande.

¿alera 8. Vidai

ISTICA:: 30

an0e0t 11

---

## Page 58

20 March 1961

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Debriefing of Eaward G. Tichborn (P) upon Retura

from El Salvador

demo for the Record,

"Plans for Debriefing of

Savard G. Tichbora (P) In Washington," dated

8 March 1961

1: Edwerd G Tichborn (P) arrived in Weshington fron

Caltfornia on 12 March and vas debriefed on 13 and 14 March

1961. The debrieflas vas held in Subject's room at the Statler

Hotel and was tape recorded. Those participsting in this

debriefing vere Messro. Paul Poutoa and Brendon Burns of WEL

aad the undersigned.

Michborn (P) related the contacts be

had made, thetr, impressions of the locel political scene, his

own assessment of the situation, personal comments on the

economy and government obtained fron "slumning" among the

local lover classes, etc. Tichborn (P) also polated out areas

In which ve could make a positive contribution and gave a

number of over all recamendations concerning the political

and ecconle fields.

2. The WiD representatives vere very favorably impressed

with Tichborn (P) personally and vith his activities. Wille in

El Salvador on the related TDY mission.

The Anerican Ambassador to El Salvador bad net Michborn (P)

while there and was sufficiently inpressed with him that he seat

& telegram to Mr. Thomas Mann of the Department suggesting that tbe

161-253253

---

## Page 59

SuST

matter night find it very profitable to contact Tichbora (P)

and decuss the Solvadoran situation vith big (see SALy 3630,

Di 16568, dated 10 Narch 61) An e result, Flehborn (P) tea

apprised upon his arrival that if he did meet with Mr. Mann

that he should not conceal the fact that he had sone to El

Salvador on behall of CIA. (In the meantine, Mr. Mann vas

being inforned of this relationship by WiD in order to avoid

any possible embarsasing situations.) Tichborn (P) was

anxious to talk vith Nr. Mann and Mr. Paxton was attempting

to set up an appointent with him: However, Mr. Mann was

occupted on other matters and lir. Paxton therefore suggested

to Mr. Devune that be might meet vith Tichborn (P).A

meeting vas sufgested by Mr. Devine for 2:30 Thursday the

16th, but Tichborn (P) stated that stace he had an appointment

at the White House at 3 pa that it would not be possible.

Mr. Paxton asked Tichborn (P) to call Mr. Devine on this and

that maybe they could work out another time. No more was

beard fron Tichbors (P) by Mr. Paxton or by CA/FAG. We bad,

however, talked with Tichborn (P) Wednesday morning when he

called for Mr. Paxton's number and I asked him if ve could be of

any nore assistance and he replied in the negative.

4. Administratively, Tichborn's (P) selary ($1,000) vas

paid him in cash as he reguested on 14 March. * Expense money

for his transportation to, and his stey in, El Salvador vere

advanced to him by the Station and the related accounting was

taken care of there.

The only funds which are now due Tichborn (P)

are his expenses while in Washington for the debriefing. He

stated that be vould farverd his hotel bill, airplane tickets,

and other receipts upon his return to California. He was

cautioned to mati the true name receipts (plane tickets, hotel

bille, etc.) la one envelope and his accounting sbeet, signed

In pseudonya, in a separate one.

WID 18 transcribing the tapes of Tichborn's (P) de-

brieflag and ve will recelve a copy thereof when completed.

Endeantedal

Evalena S. Vidal

Political Action Group

EVidal.ns

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - Chrono

1 = Suufect file

---

## Page 60

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T.

123

DATE

08 MARCH 1961

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SAN SALVADUR

ACTION, WH 5

INFO CEG 2,

A 2, CA/PRO, C1/OA, FI, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

ROUTINE.

HAR 10 10 19 51

REGIO CARLE SECTA

ROUTINE

TO

IN 16568

CITE SALV 3630

INfO

DIR

REF: A. DIR 26522 (OUT 76527* )

B. SALY 3596 (1N 47219

C. DIR 26346 (OUT 76088)

D. SALV 3623 (IN 14611

)

1. DUE PERSONAL BUSINESS IN USA TICHBORN HAD ONLY 7 DAYS

IN SALV BUT DID OUT STANDING JOB OF LEARNING MUCH IN SHORT TIME.

2. WITH HELP OF JUEGGPLANT, JUVAN I, STATION, AND ALSO

ON OHN, TICHBORN MADE MANY CONTACTS IN NEARLY ALL SOCIAL,.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SECTORS AND LEVELS OF POPULATION. SOME

CONTACTS PRIVATE, SOME SOCIAL, SOME BOTH. CONTACTS INCLUDEC:

LEADERS IN VARIOUS POLITICAL PARTIES; COMMERCIAL AND FINANCIAL

LEADERS: UNIVERSITY FACULTIES; DIRECTORATE MEMBER RODRIGUEZ

PORTH (A HOURS AT JUVAN'S HOME); AT LEAST 2 CABINET MINISIERS;

MILITARY LEADERS; LOWER AND MIDDLE CLASSES; MEMBERS AND

ASSOCIATES OF SO-CALLED "14 FAMILIES", ALSO OTHER DISCUSSIONS

WITH ROBERTO PARKER, JUBATE, JUVAN 1 JEGGPLANT, JUEBB,

JUBILARIAN, OR GALINDO POHL, U.S. AMBASSADOR, AND OTHERS.

JUEGGPLANT AND JUVAN I VERY HELPFUL MANY INSTANCES.

S-E-C-#-E-T

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

=91.253203

Copy DEs

---

## Page 61

DATE

FROM

ACTION

INFO

TO

28 MARCH 1961

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

3 -

ROUTING

PAGE TWO

'SALS 3630

INFO

CITE-

3. WITH EXCEPTIONS JUEGGPLANT, JUVAN 1, AMB, AND JUBATE,

TICHBORN USED COVER AND ELICITATION TO AVOID CONTACTS

TAILORING THEIR INFO AND OPINIONS TO SUIT A PBPRIME INVESTIGATOR.

4. AS PREDICTED IN REF B ASSESSMENT NECESSARILY LIMITED

BY TIME. TICHBORN SAID HIS "MAKING RECONMENDATIONS AT THIS

TIME WOULD BE PRECOCIOUS". STATION CONCURS VIEW TIME ELEMENT:

HE PREFERS GATHER THOUGHTS AND NOTES DURING FEW DAYS AWAY

FROM SCENE, THEN WRITE ASSESSMENT. SUGGEST HIS BEST VALUE TO

DATE WILL BE IN CONVERSATIONS AT HAS DURING EXPECTED TRIP TO

WASH NEXT FEW WEEKS, UNLESS HQS DESIRES INTERVIEW HIM AT LES

ANGELES.

5. PER REF C AMB WAS REQUESTED USE OUR CHANNELS. HOW EVER

AFTER INITIAL INTERVIEW WITH TICHBORN AMB ALSO INVITED

TICHBORN TO LUNCH AND LATER SENT BRIEF BUT HIGHLY COMPLIMENTASY

NOTE DATED 2 MARCH THRU STATE CHANNELS TO MR TOM MANN,

SUGGESTING IT WOULD BE USEFUL FOR MANN HAVE TÄLK WITH TICHBORN

AMB'S NOTESTATED "I DOUBT THAT ANY ONE WHC HAS BEEN HERE IN

RECENT MONTHS COULD GIVE YOU AS GOOD A PICTURE OF THE PRESENT

AMBIENTE" NOTE IDENTIFIEO TICHBORN AS LAWTER FROM LOS ANGELES,

j-E-C-R-6-T

REPRODUCTION BY DINER INAN THE ISSUING GIE: E MONORIS.

Sexy the

---

## Page 62

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-CR-E-T

818

PROM

ACTION.

INFO: "

POUTING

PAGE THREE

TO

IN 16568

SALV 3630

CITE

INfO

TICHBORN HAS COPY AND APPEARED PLEASED WITH NOTE.

6. NO KNOWN SECURITY PROBLEMS BUT TICHSORN MAY NEED

STRENGHTEN OR CHANGE COVER: FOR ANY FUTURE TRIP TO SALV. HF

AWARE OF THIS.

7• IF HQS DESIRES SALV CAN FURNISH FURTHER NAMES OF

PERSONS CONNECTED BUT TICHBORN HAS ADDITIONAL NAMES AND ALL

PRESUMABLY WILL BE INCLUDED IN HIS REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *HOS STATED SUBUECT NOT BROUGHT TO HOS FOR BRIEFING PRIOR DEPARTURE

SALY: HE ONLY ADVISED IN MOST GENERAL TERMS THIS MISSION AND BAREST BRiEFING ON

POLITICAL SITUATION. ASSUMED STA WOULD PROVIDE NECESSARY BRIEFING.

PEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE SURE ORACE IS PROMOTED

fish Ni

---

## Page 63

14-00000

30.2T

8 March 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Plane for Debrieflag of Bavard G. Tichborn (P)

in Washington

1. On 6 March Edward G. Tichborn (P) telephoned C/PAG to

inform him that he had returned fron his IDY assigment to El

Salvador. Be felt that his trip han been a successful one and

that he would have a neaty report to sübmit. He also suggested

that he felt it would be userul if he were debriefed by the

Interested parties at headquarters.

an excellent Idea.

3. Mc. Marshall vanted to check on the financial aspect

of richbora'e (P) trip Bast. He asked if ha would receive an

adaitionat salary for that time perlod. I sußgested (as C/PAG

bad discussed with me) that ve vould recommend to Tichbora (P)

that this debrieflag be included ln the salary he was informed

he would receive for this assignent. (This figure vould be

$500 per veek, or $1,000 Po two woeks.) Expenses covertag thi

projected trip to Washingtoa vould, hoverer, be separate.

also sentioned to Mr. Folman that this vould be suggested to

Tichsorn and that I felt be vould be amenable alace this vould

bring the total time be was on assignent for Va to two veeks.

M. Polaan agreed that I sbould call Tichborn (P) and ask hi

+4411253203

---

## Page 64

to cone sast next Sunday since be felt it extremely, Important

that they tell vith him first-hand. (Mr. Holmen did not seen

to be perticularly concerned about the quention of salary in:

this case.)

4.

As & result of this go ahead fron Ned Holman, I

called Tlebborn (P) on 7 March, mentioned the question of

salary as best I could in double-talk, and he said be under-

stood. He also said that he had Inrormed C/PAG that he could

not be away fron the U.S. for more than a ten-day period at

one time, but that he could then cone on to Washington as

& later date.

Be left for El Salvador on 22 Febrüary and

returned to the U.S. on 5 Marci) Tichbam (P) sata be vould

fly out on Sunday and call he first thing Monday mornlag,

13 March; he will be staying at the Statler Hotel. I told

hin I vould meet him there and oring some "friends' along.

(on thie sublect, Mr. Holmen said he felt Mr. Herbert, DC/wiD,

might went to attend the debrieflag.)

Durian the time that Tichborn (P) la 1n Washtagtoa,

he will aleo sign the amendment to his contact and the out-

standing Iinancial matters vill be taken care of.

din taki

Evalena

Viday

Political Action Group

Esvidal: ma

Distribution:

1 - Chrono:

1 - Subject $120

---

## Page 65

SECRLT

28 February 1961

3-13 A (Mullen)

sages

en 1077

MONO RAN DUM TORE ChIel, CA Stafe

ATTEN STON

8 Personnel Office

SUBJECT

! Henry P. Lopez (T)

Financo Division hag provided this office with a U.S. Treasury

Department, Internal

Revenue Service, Form 1099 which reflects payment

of

$1,300.00

to subject in 1960. In accordance with your Instructions

to Finance Division, this Form 1099 shows the source of these funds to be

organization provided by this office.

It 1s reguested that you advise Central Cover Division, Nonofflelal

Cover (CCD/NC) as the earliest date possible wether you wish to pass this

Form 1099 to subject personally or if you desire it to be natled to him

from the address of the ostensible source of the income.

In the event you sh it transmisted through cover channels, we

request that you adviso this office in writing that subject has been

alerted to expect receipt of these forms.

If further infomation la required, please contact Mr. John W.

Mullen, x8266, Room 2-1005 - T-40

JOHN IO.:

SOU TRAD

IIBF,

CCD/MC

9 B C

BET

4701253203

---

## Page 66

February

296

MEMORANION FOR DIS RISCORD

SUBBCT: IDY Assigment of Edward Gi Tichborn (P) to El Salvedor

REFERENCSS: A. Nemorandun for the Record, 18 January 1961

B. Menorandun for the Record, 23 January 1961

1. In early Janusry ve had suggested to WH/Salvador that

they might tina the services of a political consultant of value

in their area. The Division checked this out with the Station

who sereed ths: It ves an idea worth looking tnto and asked for

addittonal details. This toforustion was farvarded to the field

and In reply, the Station requested that ve send the individual

concerned to El Salvador to assess the political situation and

to glve *bem any related assisrance possible.

?. As a consequence, Mr. Davis contacted Eaverd 0. Tichborn (P)

by telephone and told him of our interest. Due to the Station's

request which ve santed to flll prouptly, and also to Michborn's (P)

persons seredtle (and the possibility that be might receive en

appolatest withts the Adanistration In the near future) we

vanted to set his to Salvador as soon as possible. After con-

sultation vith Pichborn (P) and with the Desk, it was decided that

he tould leave Californla on 23 February and arrive in Salvador

the following saraing.

3. In als telephone conversation, Mr. Davis vas forced to

rely on the systes of "double talking" for the purpose of security.

however, the possibility that his services night be reguired had

STONET

701-233703

---

## Page 67

AAM:

Jready been mentioned to Tichborn (P) ben he vas In Washingto

on personal matturs in Jaquary (see Ref. B). Mr. Devla also

attempted to "second guess" Richborn'a (P) feelings on thta

assignent when arranging the details with WID. The fact that

he might receive an appointment vas the major factor under

consideration, especially In the sense that first, ve did not

vant to expose Tichborn (P) as a KUBARK agent and secondly,

ve did not want In any way to present Tichborn (P) with any

problems In relation to his possible appointment.

4. Mr. Davis told Tichborn (P) in guarder language bich

was apparently well understood by him that the COS ("our sendor

partner and the Arossedor ("the senior partner of our cousin

firm) would be vitting as to his KUBARK connections and tbat

undoubtedly JUEGCPIANY (an Anerican cut-out and contact of the

Station) and the latter's brother-in-lav JUVAN-1 (a Salvadoren

bustnessman and Station contact vith whom he would be vorking)

vould also be witting. However, as agreed with Wi, the locale

other then JUVAN 1 vould be wvitting as to his KUBARK connections.

and hir "old Mend" JUECEPLANT and this cover story was to

(P) vas informed that he would be "visiting" Salvador

be cited to the Local Salvadorens.

:5.:

Mr Davls espectally pointed out to Tichborn (P)

that since Wi felt be should talk with the Ambassador, we

wanted hir to be avare of this la the event that this possibility

arose at the Stat lon's request Mr. Devis added that of course

we would not want the Ambassedor to take unbrage, etc. at

Tichborn's (P) vlait or activities and that we had been assured

by soneone (Paul Paxton) who lovs Ambassador Murat Willtans,

that the latter could be counted upon for his cooperation and

discretion.

Tichborn (P) thet asked Specifically whether be

vould, definitely talk vith the Ambassador and Mr. Davls Inforned

him that this would depend upon the Statiod'a Judgnent. (we

had inforned us that this vas a possibility since Willems 1s

new to his post and the Station la trylag to work closely with

him

from the beginning: Wi felt that if Militams later learned

that Tichborn (P) had been in tho area vithout his knowledge,

be

night take offense.) In this event, the Station was advlsed

to request the Ambassador to use our channels for any comminications

to the Department coucerning. Tichborn (P).

S003T

---

## Page 68

сволої

6. in had also told us that they might have to taform

the Department of Mchborn's (P) trip to El Salvador and

thea decided that thia vould not be necessary. However, on

23 February, a final decision was made that this vould have

to be done esa since C/Wa worke so closely vith State. PAG

did agree to this but requested that thiß Information be in

general terms only and that Tichbor'e (P) name not be elven.

Wi agneed that is could be done in this vay. WI also stated.

that this Information will be passed to Mr. Devine and vould

be limited to hin and Mr. Mann.

7. Tichborn's (P) Lastructions vere that be would be

net at the airport if possible by JUECCPIANT (unose true

nome and description vere provided); if he did not appear,

Tichborn (P) vus to go to the Interconttnental Hotel and

wait there to be contacted by either JUEGGPLANT

or the COS, Ben Stotts. Upon meeting Tichborn (P)

JUEGGPIANT, as a recognition signal, would say "I am a friend

of Horace".

8.

Nichborn (P) asked If some expense money could be

provided him la El Salvador and he vas assured that this

would be arranged. Since time (and the airlines strike)

did not permit bis coming to Washington for & detalled briei-

ing on the political situation in Salvador and on his specific

mission, these matters plus the funds for expenses illl be

handled by the Station.

9. Two cables were sent to the field concerning the

subject of Tichbor's (P) artval In El Salvador (DIR 26346,

OUT 76088 and DIR 26522, OUT 76527). These cables spelled out

richbarn's (P) cover, the need for spectal discretion on the

art of those individuals who are witting of his relationship

With KUBARk the meetlag or contact arrangements; the fact that

detatled briefings by the Station would be necessary since it

had not been possible to undertke this at Headquarters, his

pseudonym and approval for the Station's providing bin with

certata funde.

10• In SUmmarY, PAC's Interest vas to arrange for Michbara's (P)

rrival in Salvador as soon as poseible and at the sane time to

---

## Page 69

c.0.11

rotect bla KUBARK status and assure that this present misato

ould not in any vay Interfere with his possible appointmen

to & post in the Admintstration.

mate

Evalena 8. Vidal

Political Action troup

ESVida,1: ma

Distrimition

0r16 - WH/Planning Pile

1 ÷ Chrono

1 - Subject fle

1 - Vidal

---

## Page 70

Postingt co Dox 800s

washington,

March 9, 1960

Dear Henry,

Inclosed is a thermates copy of the original expense shest you

forwarded to se.

Since the regulations requiro that this accounting

bo quite specific (such sore so then the one for the company there

aro a fou additions I would appreciate your neone. These are parked

on the enclosed copy and auggestions for more specific detalis are

keyed thoreto belovi

Por all major transportation expenses (plane, train

lease add the appradiate hours of arrival and/ai

departure.

2. Please include nases of the contacts included in

these expendes.

3. Indiosta brierly the nature of phone cells.

4 Add soothing here about blending in with local

color", oto.

So. Make sono indication that the books, pagestnes and

nespapers vero for beckground informition, ete., ralated

to your trip.

6. A notation thes this trip was for operatlonal purposes:

& do van to hat to sit i so botta do prodr over,

quickly as possible after I receive the receipte (or bilis) and this

vill be of valuable assistance in that procedure.

Hope all goes well - let me knoy the results of your operation

and the axpenses tavolved, I shall try to do sonathing about then.

Sinceraly,

Henry M. Darkle

166259263

---

## Page 71

seat, otta be 620g

Pearmury 12, 1960

5. Bury 7. 1090

Dear Banis,

Sais vould taeline all possible ticket stubs for all cranaportation,

eur retals, biral billo, doctos bille, telephons carson, and other

supperting recates.

a the future, in say olber comications directeu to no, ploas

so mar true nara in the roturn addrosa. Contime to sign scootel

direrted to se sa tIchbors.

amring you for youe cooperation ant hopins to haar fran you

5000, I resta

sinceraly sours,

Bestsy He Davids

-951.233713

---

## Page 72

9 February 1960

MENSORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Edward G. Tichbora (P) - Hernia

1. On i February Edward G. Tichbor advised me that in lifting

his bag out al a taxi on his return trip from Cuba; he suddenly felt

a pain in the groin and was afreld thet he had a hernia.

2.

On the vay to the airport he asked me if thore would be anj

chance of the Government picking up his medical expenses in the eveat

that he actually had a herate which required any subatential treatent:

I told him at that tine that I did not know what the Goverment's

position would be, but that I would check toto the matter and let hin

know.

3:

On 2 Pebruary, I contacted Mr. Vernon Turner, SSA/DDS, end

explained the circumstances to him. At that time, I ado pointed out

that as far as the provisions of his contract vere concerned, it was

stated that be was not an employee of the U. S. Government and while

it did not make specific reference to redical payments while he vas

working for us, it did not specifically preclude such payments.

Mr. Turner opined that although the contract stated bo was not an

employee of the U. S. Goverament, in actual Pact during the period ho

vas doins our bidding, be was.

I went on further to explain to

Mr. Turner that in all probability ve will call on Tichborn to do

futwe services for un

and that witle he vas being paid, it was doubt-

ful that this reimbursement from us egualed what he would make ta

his regular lay practice.

Mr. Turner stated that there were a number

al ways that ve could allerate his situation showid it become

necessar.

JESHET

20213763

---

## Page 73

63501

*. See conclusion reached between me and Mr. Turner vas that

I should point out to Tichborn that ve vete under no obligation to

recompense his for bite injury; hovever, that upon the completion os

treatment if he vould submit a claim, ve should be glad to review

it sympatheticaLly.

5. I passed the flot of the above da to Ilchborn on 3 February.

Horace W. Davie

Chief

Political Action Division

HWD: bj1

Distribution:

- Orig. - subj. file

1

SSA/DOS

÷ 1

- chrono

LEGNeT

---

## Page 74

8 October 1999

BORAAN PORE CAlOS, CH/01

De Seourd ty Information ca Dabject has been revieved ly

esolving as cocretional deproval by 15 Ortober.

2o Astoched 10 bibfectio Pra, Part II.

Borsco W. Dayls

Auting Chios

Folitical Astlon Ditlatos

tochanst: PiQ, Part It

Distribertion::

Orig. & 1 - addressee

1

Subjeet tile (Lopes)

chrom

SECRET

28: 293287

---

## Page 75

StüKt!

CONTRACT INFONHETION AND MECK LIST

Lorero d. Darli

4 betate 0999

BAN 8, To

SALACERAL

STAT 1On.

4160900.9%.

220041 19

SL0.N0.

CIA

SUDONYe OR

ALIASES

•PRESENTLY

ENGAGIO

CAPACITY

LUGAGLO: BY

describe no lav

BA

CONTRACTEIS TO: DE

"RITTEN IM

GOVERNMENT!

STUDILE FORM IER..

¿CONTROLLEO CONCITIONS

SUBJECT'S MONE ANO PERFORMCO UNDER

10.

SUPERVISICH:

SECTION IT

CATECORY (ConfeReE

COPPIECE

Contrast egent

83

LEN RISIO

Catt

110 aF country

approprrates

WUNDER OF DEPE

ENTS (MoR dacludine individuel)

Eg separaTio

INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYER, STAFF AGENT OR

AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY:

WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME:

CAPACITY

CREATION SATA,

SECTION T1I

RESERVE.

U.s.'

MILITARY

STATUS

21..

22:

RETIRED. INDICATE

¡sobility.

service

disability

" Not to

25. ORÄFT ELIGIBLE.

DRAFT

DEFERMENT OBTAINED

CiA.

ives 0710

SECTION IV

87.

BASIC SALARY

28:

COMPENSATION

28

covER (Broakdown, if any)

30.

TAXES TO BE WITHHELD BY

$90,00 pee deg

SECTION V

". QUARTE"S HA

Si: COVER (Dreakdown.

if any)

ALLOWANCES (NCRUALLY GRAVTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS.

OF THE UNITED STATES)

POST

$J. OTHER

SECTICN.VI

SS. TiPES

TRAVEL

WITH DEPENOENTS

•EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPEO

STATE

PERSONAL VEMICLE TO BE SHIPPED

39:

Barts.

RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, ACE

AND

DATE. OF BIRTH

TRANSPORTEO VEHICLE TO BE USED FON

OPERATIONAL

TRAVEL

FUCHASE EY

+88088089109

•our Dalfeet what to forestres for

AtH 058:b07 8000 1ed189 ats

---

## Page 76

DEFIEEN

COATRACT INFORMATICN LI

HECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

SEE LISTMICTIMS OY FIRST SSITY

SECTION

D'ATE

SESTION

STATUS

Chech).

COYER ACTIVITY

1220619R Risi

SECTION X

OFFSET OF INCOVE

50. GEESET OF

attached hereto:)

INCOME AND OTMER: ENRUN

FATS DERIVEO FROM COVER ACTIVITIES PIE ICE Chan POlal, jualify in i

SECTION XI

•TERV

SA- TERMIMATION METiCE (uader el daNa)

30 days

SECTION: XIl

SEE PRIMARY FUNCTION (F2, PP. offer) !

FUNCTION

SECTION XINT!

OUTIES

57:

GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERCOONSO

SECTION XIV

S&- EXPERIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

dottro la sonthen Calleda palstles, pardenterty Lon angales ana

SO: EDUCATION

check waghes

ival Arraiond

LANGUAGE

COMPITENCY

col

LANGLAGE

CORLESE

Chest Appropriato

Detroo Coopateac

ARCA KiDULEDGE

Fades; Lotta dinedes

SECTION KY

PRIOR EMPLONES?

-108

ANO SALARY PAIDA TO BRAVICE PSA CIA

Baajoes da ta privato ley prestion

Rape.

SENOOL

LORE

COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

15I9 AXI

In. 850,910006

191210241

:12=5A0/0A

+1+018885898

8A

000000099)

---

## Page 77

2 0CT 1959

cealngton, D.C.

Atr, Baxary Po SODEs

Deas SS. Iopass

aa soca do poastale.

Sincerely joure,

Hexay W. Deskli

201-253263

---

## Page 78

25 September 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THIS RECORD

SUBJECT: Edward G. Tichborn (P)

On the noming de la September I called Michborn and arranged

to meet bin at his office at 1230.

As an ettachment to this memo

I have outlined the standard approsch which was followed in Tichborn's

Instance; therefore, I will not go further into it.

2.

Tichbor struck me as being extremely quick, intelligent, very

sympathetic to my suggestions and andous to cooperate. Be is or

Nexican descent, speaks Nexican/Spanish fluently and according to hin

can essily pass as a Medesn. Michbora has spent considerable time

over the yeach in Mexico as vell as attending the University af

Mexico for a year or tro. He bas also traveled to Cuba and is a

friend of

is personally known to me and

night, at sonetime, be of use to us. I shall not delve into Michborn'&

mind what he will do.

• In the period of three hours that I was with Tirkborn,

as extremely impressed by his and feel sure that be would do a

excellent joo of brieling any individuals that we might desire him

to brief.

Ian also sure that if he was sent out on a IDY he vould

acquit himself In superlor fashion. Michborn is called upon fron

time to time to give advice on the handling of Mexcen/American

problens and show the grest appreciation at the difficulties of

dealing with Latin Amertcans, their great sense of politicelmmorality.

their inferiority camplex and ul their unfound but nevertheless anti-

gringo feeltags. Tichborn vas particularly interested in the situation

In Cuba and asked my opinion of it.

My comment in essence was that

201. 253203

---

## Page 79

It seemed pretty obrious that Costro was extremaly emotional and

tended tovarde being a demigod-tho had von the ver but vas losing

the peace. Tichborn concurred in this opinion, adding to it that

he felt that Castro vas not cogniesnop of the dangers of Coumnten.

Tichborn knous me as Mr. Darkin.

Horace. W. Davis

Acting Chief

Political Action Division

Attachment as stated.

RHD: bj1

0x18. - Subjest file

1 - chronc

---

## Page 80

Ratino Suilosod la Recrulers dueprosro caspedia Kanagere

1. I aquaind to ibea inos a nas dot Lavastigator enysco but trai

isa bashing their arperscon on a concidistial baide.

lackred Baat

apart see as

sillas poo thes to lan to dira tetaring sonacos

palitie

to lo tarolions melties lus ountry undo ou

s0,.s.

1 ematred abas tho brrelag sould be all Isolnivu Fros tba

ceception cl en edoo, lia amiration di a palitical arousne to too socies

quatira sad toiding el a alentlos. I paleted out to than taat son stra

no stati bit pura plasury tu do siruad. I Roy juTad roaspliTe to lia

renossary to ait va pareultanto so do iterand to do mao tha sresa sypo ut

China on sta cessa.

2 Tendi revoloss wore ariraly sororie, They all bad the seme

quentics, ela that have ariam in purios seantimato.

3. ¿ pado a erous pudot of stresses to sona too antrics dollecor

agnetos prople so bo escased l daniaare and asde vaca leilo fuis over

int bin? on, miniy Mla, diplorate, or 1s escos war tos oulprit sis

vss acicadared sies sara delicato end fee tis reasoa they shoula 2aza

nary carlay a linollen equist mandas of thats secondazim ita

Do it the fijeds us or acstartables to sayino.

Lo 3 toss mint as to padre ar thas to vera approachine a maver at

peoplo of darterart sacas, eradda end laguago qualibleatic sa 1 filt

chas 18 sas poesscary la la prepared for a meras al ovontuitiles. y

•paintod mit tist 15, astor rattlay lu no, the latiolins: chaneul tas aled

os 11d rot dastro to pertiopalo in si corns mar I sould understad au

hat tharo sould la to hard foolliga ss logs se our corersatics vom kept

pas to serva it ve tally sappodlated by sa test me ondies viai

mader stood.

•de far as to say mao duisarior l said to sau terals test

the jorsam: dod shit, lig inald da pold la accontinos all e sterdars

contraot vitas prorlavi fer 150 pie. day not to scost 8269 ps soot, pla

all esperas. Iì and thas shay vone ustivi pin 8a go artildo lee Us, a

---

## Page 81

they told probably la ony, thate

setarder, l erso agilia i

vt so then that Chay lighs :

---

## Page 82

MALA

MEMORANDUN OF AGRESMEN

by rodo a to east fast eat the cent, it colo y

striet security measur

2. I agree not to inform anyone that I have been contacted by

mber of the Central Intalliganco Agency.

3. I agree not to disclose tue subject of the conversation held

with the Central Intelligenco Agency vithout specifio approval at ar

Agency representative.

1. I egree not to discuss by name or othervlee, any snastianalo

with whom I heye talkod in the course of my associetion with the

Central Intolligenne Agency.

starlin 14 195%

204-253203

---

## Page 83

неку Р. Хорз-

From bicuo ta eI/cA ficia Asprite buccto

g Secinta (IIS) - data 10

Ture develofed inforant= Commento

javally ne Sulis Character, reputatin

+ layaity, oue infmant statca swy

had leen manied 3 truca + lio

prescut bavage acuost ended iii

duece recentey

2 Suly was fined tss for a 19s1 traffic

violation + lis Viliquent -Jacur

do affar at the lazing.

inamar aduad duli had recciat

ми суа з пти ми оса

police ofice::

Believeo to hace ruttid

hom sinpd partire dickets - (.)

→

3. Julyicts name affeasa humerons timica

in sulucisive files on the luct Coast

tricse iterna Cirileisi,

nasciates. Su 1749 tu ladi listea

ad a tender a fe bar Commettes

---

## Page 84

desciiid by the files

as a leitist + his acturties were

primarily Concernco cia lscal

mincity gxups. Thes activities

Communist Daily Peoples Woed"

A..

repicaeTited

a hon- cbopcratie

(incocicatue.?)

Ldtres lefre tie HICuA

au

aamitleo communis, Pmembe +-

Who ias leceu actiein noit

actirties thru dee jgais

5. Sulyect repastedly assisted

during muác g

Iembeus Q

C'onmunity" Service Srcannatiou.

acaodisg to Security filés, ts neoaz

pera frcud g

decunty disalbioued in 1955, +

fainably neconsnended him.

i Con Ce E Con: (LACCE) aD g Cct .

1153, Thua oagrlation ueuouge ner

riqaidid ad

immunit smiated,

sticio aloir t0 Cernsar Ceice y licioi

---

## Page 85

spokcu out against L.A. Police Keft

reacher fruia, layaltu

tung y tie denes cate

va also

membe 4/

Commuinty Sinco

Олфанп,

Nica vas regardid as infiltratid

у СР ін 54-55 + 1 міслекса bet

not dominaled by the Cp at the

preett tine .

6. Su Jan: 59, OSE inimeno

Subject re his asociation lieli

, re latteis

alleged Comm. actintics. Suly.

Liateó le had Lucur

since 1938, had nos secu

during 42-55 + since 5s liad Decu

ocasionally. He reconmated

foi a securitu positon +

suliets political connation or

afficiations.

Crite aria:

---

## Page 86

1. LOPEZ: @ His fil alsocutely

111.

---

## Page 87



---

## Page 88

14-00000

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

HEMORANDUM FOR: ChIeF

PP/PAD

Attai H. H. Davia

C 7119

Henry Po LOFF2

REFERENCE: YOUR MEMORANDUM DATED

10 Apr41 1959

Provisional Operational Approvel le grentod for the une of thie

Subject as requested in referenced memorandum.

A Provisional Operational Approval losued by CI Staff grants the

same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as

an agent as the authority grented in

an Operational Approvel. It Is

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and

ls subject to a further final review when all Investigation 1s complete.

An Operational Approval will Pollou von all investigution 1s

completed

To procesa the Operational Approval, full Information

(completed PRQ Parto I end Il) must be subnitted as soon as poseiblo

and not lated than elx (6)

pustas pros thia dato.

CI/PERATIORAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

125

SECRET

11 May 1959 Jd

---

## Page 89

SECRET

18 CLASSITITOI

ONE, IN ARMAN LETT.

DE TO PERNAL ONCED

Hairy P. LOPEZ

41119

P. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS. CTE BU

TE U

Un

EXPEUITE

• BIRTH- DATE:

SE BIRTH PLACE

S. CITIZLNSNIP

May. 38, 1980

Desaver, Colorede

Amarloan

PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LUCATION

Astorney, Los Angelos, Calliorada

C 422

459

RES

NSE TO GREEN LIST.

REQUEST NO.

022402)

DATE OF REQUEST

32959

REQUEST FRON

NAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER

H.H. Devla

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

PP/PAD

ROON, BUILDING

2028 & mage

EXTENSION

4962

IS. WAS CONTIMUING SEARCH REQUESTED

PRETES

- мО

15• TYPE OF REQUEST

"FIRST TIME SUBMITTEO

" AOOITIOMAL DATA

COVER NAME

16. INTEREST IN SUBJECT

_ ESPIONAGE DA CE ACTIVITI

M. OPPRATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

17: INFORMATION REQUIRED

Derogatory?

1OCA TON

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES; EDUCATION

LEB, Harrard Law School, 29h0

Gradueto school of tasterico, Harmand, 19biokS

B.A., Unireroity of leaver, 29bl

Ored, study, Valvratden Neatonal de Moxico, 19

MILITASY SERVICE

U.So Arty, start sergeent

PASt

CUPATIONS

Madioal Corpa

RATES

1942-43

ACTIVITY

LOCATION

DATES

Payontastie Incorvioner, case. General Hospital

boston, Mage.

1945-16

Logal Consultaab, Kas'l, Labor Ralesiona Board

Los Angoles, Calflo

1948

Astorney, apociallelng ta tolal vort,

Los Angaleo, Carst. 1949 prodent

Subsodi stero da Calcano otato police (peerad) res mustelly for

Searotary as Steu, 1958.

I0• DESCRIPTION.

(METOH7)

11. SPM.S8

TEVEST

(MAIR)

l bors Lariegtos, Ay.

1:. OTNER MEMBERS OF NAMEDIATE FAMILY. AN: ASSIATES

(RACE)

OTNIE SIGNIFIÇASE DATA (ADLITICS, OT:16109. 19C

(Sea atoro)

SITACA LATES INCUTS RAID OLIGEO

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTA

INSERT CARBON: FILL

. OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SHEETS YO

FI/STO.

inor, s0l an

.. add

SECRET

StE .651*10=7

---

## Page 90

14-00000

SECRET

TO: H. Hi DasLe

FROM: FI/STO Sir

22 2001 1059 .

C.

(4744

E.

I SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/STO BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

IS A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHEO MERETO:

WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PHOVIDED IN THE REQUEST,

STD IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WETHER THERE IS INFORMATION

ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

FI/STO HAS NO DECODOREE INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A

CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTED IN SECTION 14.

INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU

AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.:

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF

THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN

THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER INPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET WITH

THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULO BE

SENT TO FI/STO..

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/STO THE SHEETS:

FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING:

MANE CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FLISTO'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES..

FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIREO.

TO:

FROM:

FI/STD

DATE

NAME

GFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROON, 0U110190

EXTENSIGH

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 91

TO::

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGAT'

SION

er..gte.ro

CI/Operational Apricral and Support Division

Security Support Dirtsion/Office of Security

SUBJECT::

Ruary P. Lager

CAMPTONVES PSCUOONIOS ARA CA

20 AprIL 1959

FROM:

PP/PAD/s Davie

PROjIC!.

SOLAGKRAL

CI/OA PILE MO.

FIER NO.

SO FILE NO.

PROViSIONAL

OPERATIONAL

OPERATIONAL

PROVISIONAL COVCRT SECURITY APPROYAL

COVERT BICURITY

COVERI SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON MITH U.S-OFFICIALS:

USE CE INCIVIOUAL OR ACTION REQUESTEO

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIKTARY APPROVAL

PROPRIITARY APPROVAL

COVERT MAME CHECK

SPECIAL INQuIRY (SO (lold Investilotion)

SPECIFIC-AREA OF USE

Horld side

PULL DETAILS OF USE

Subjest will net is an advleory espsalty of foreiga contrate al the

agaveto enlants so then brorta pulitionl tochalquas,.

advistas en the condust

of politial espalgas, ess. Sapjont will probably be detailed abroed ooesa1osa21-

for sintiar paspesas.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR GILL SUOJECT BE ANARE OF U.S. GOVERMMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

13 ON DILL SUBJECT DE DARE DE SIA INTEREST IN MIM?

SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR CORTRAGE DESIRIO IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

NO NECCaO

NO ARCORO

PRE AND GREEN LIST STATUS.

ATTACHIO

WILL BE FORWARDED.

GREEN LIST ATTACHED.

077832

FIELD TRACES

CNALUATIDN

NO iNFORMATION OF VALUE

HOT TRITIATRO (SuplaraTion)

¡Artac dies)

Desor Arrested)

FATTESTONT TICHATUAT Of MARCH CHITI

|orRosATias

SLROGATORY

2c1 253303

5. 772

SECRET

---

## Page 92

Tensy

P.

Mundat

May 20, 1990

staples

vor, Colored

totten A) DA, Vasverelty el Damer, 194;

.

8) Graduato Behoal ol Decontes, Harvest Jasroralty, 1944-ls

6) X40, Harvard Len Behoal, 1948

D) Gradusto stuty, Univernidad Naalonal do Mosleo, 1955

Bastianges

4953 Augurt, Im Arcales, Cultianta

Pastly!

MiSo, Mildred and taroo ulsor childrea.

sployenti A) Paycitotrio laterderer, Mucchusetta Oneral hospital,

Bostor, loss. 1945-h6

B) Logal Consultant, Istianel Labor Relations Board,

LOs Angelos, Callrornia 194

9) Attorney, estellains 1a trial vot, too Angele

9ug present

Veteraa:

V.9, Ansy Madtoal Cospu, otart bergeant 1942-43

PolItteal and Organizationel letivitios:

A) Coeltzoo on Paloral Miles, sos Anjales Dar Assoslation 2953

8) Panel for Indigent Defendante, U.S. Distrlot Court

0) President, Los Angelen Young Dewcorate

1950-57

1950-52

3) Dollars sor Desierate Chalrasa, ESrd Annantly Dotrlet

8) President, Comell ol Hondon Aserlean APTelrs) Doard al

Distriota 0.I. Forsa, Musbor of Urban Langue and illACT

---

## Page 93

C5S27

1) Anthor of several published artsales on eubjerta or lar and

19405.

---

## Page 94

SECRET

VENORANDUN FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT

Utilization of

for Nominal Cover

This memorandum contains a recommendation for your

approval in paragraph six

2. Santo Domingo Station has requested that Edward G.

TICHBORN.

an American Contract Agent of Mexican extraction

who is presently assigned to Mexico Station,

be temporarily

assigned to the Dominican Republic to assist Santo Domingo

in the

period immediately preceding the 1 June presidential

election.

Mexico Station and TICHBORN have agreed to this

assignment and it is proposed that TICHBORN go to Santo

Domingo in the

immediate future to read in on the operations

änd then return to Santo Domingo on approximately I May to

carry out whatever operattonal duties Santo Domingo Station

may assign him.

It is presumed that he would return to

Mexico City shortly after 1 June 1966.

TICHBORN, 46, is bilingual and has a ride range of

business and social contacts throughout Latin Anerica: TiCHBORN

Following graduation from Harvard Law School in 1948,

became affiliated with a law firm in Los Angeles which repre-

sented many Latin American corporations with California

business connections.

In the mid-1950's he became active in

California state politics and served in various capacities in

Democratic Party state and national organizations.

He par-

ticipated actively in the California

gubernatorial campaign

of James Roosevelt, the senatorial campaign of Helen Gahagan:

Douglas and both the 1952 and 1956 Stevenson campaigns

for

President.

He has been President of the Southern California

Young Denocrats, a member of the California

Democratic State

Central Committee, a member of the Host Committee for the

1956 Denocratic National Convention

and a nember of the Board

of Directors

of the National Denocratic Minority. Conference.

In 1960 he served as los Angeles coordinator of the Kennedy

Movement for Americans

of dexican Extraction which, it 18

reported, contributed substantially to the success of the

Kennedy campaign in Southern California.

His only try for

electivo office was in 1959 when he as defeated in his bid

sor the position of California Secretary of Staro.

SECRET

---

## Page 95

SECRET

÷2-

4.

In late 1959, TICHBORN was hired by the ARency as

In 1961 he became a

under pro contract ant and was as dead to desecuty:

under personal cover,

and mobility which would permit him to travel readily on

third country political action assignments.

Since the

beginning of his relationship with the Agency, he has par-

ticipated in Agency sponsored opcrations in

At present,

he is engaged full-time in managing a Mexico Station funded

left wing intellectual publication, Dialogos. His cover in

Mexico now is nomtnal and he

attributes his presence and

interests primarily to his activities in the legal field

for his former Los Angeles law firm employer:

He devotes

nost of his time to his position as editor of Dialogos.

5.

TICHBORN has contributed stories,

articles and

to Untted States and Latin American publications.

Interview accomplishment in this field has been the public

cation of an interview with Catherine Anne Porter in a

recent issue öf Harpers magazine. TICHBORN suggests that

he might be able to arrange viable cover for his temporary

assignment in the Dominican Repubiic by writing to

and querying their interest in his preparation of an article

concerhing the Donirican Republic political situation and

the forthcoming election.

There is no reason to belleve that

would turn down such a proposal and, in fact, it is

belleved they would welcome it.

Recommendation.

The Western Hemisphere Division

recommends that approval be given for TICHBORN's approach

to advige them of his planned trip to the Dominican

Republic and request of the

an expression of interest

artlele on the present situation in the Doninican

This will be done specifically as a cover for bis

travel to Santo Domingo:

In the event

sion hit to do such an

TICHBORN will present his

manuscript for Agency approval

prior to forwarding it to

SECRET

---

## Page 96

SECRET

-3-

In the event that Wi Division or Santo Domingo

station should wish to utilize such a TICHBORN prepared

article to surface a specific theme of interest to the

Agency, a request for approval of such action will be reterred

to your office prior to taking any action.

William V. Broe

"Chief'

Nestern Hemisphere Diviston

The reconmendation contained in

paragraph 6 is approved:

Deputy Director for Plans

Date

Cc: ADDP

SECRET

---

## Page 97

Name (T) :

DPOS

'Edücation:

Experience:

Agency

Experience:

Henry P. Lopez.

ir.

al to Prees for on gear

28 Say 1920; Denver, Colorado

University of Denver, 1912-45, BA Pol. Sc.

Marvard Univereity, 1915-46, MA Economics

TAMA

N.B

Harvard Law School, 1946-48, LLB

Private Inw practice in Los Angeles, 1018-59: Democratic

Party politician, activist, and candidate fa public

office (unsuccessful) in State of California 1948-59;

active in state and national politics of the Democratle

campaigns of 1952, 1956, 1958, and 1980.

Hired in 1959 on contract basis to provide expertise

In political campaigns. He has partielpatod in Agency

political operations in

Present

Status

Contract Agency, salary o8 $12,000/por your with

$3,000 housing allowance wille he was assigned to

Mexico Station.

He departed Mexico City on 1 August,

at is own request and is now establishing himself and

Proposed

Cover

Agency 1s $12,000 He considers he is worth $20,000.

Investigation ol sultable cover for utilization of inpez

as a political action agent was successful in that

Indicated an interest in Lopez' background (Economics

and law) as a possible Latin American spectalist for

the

---

## Page 98

However, he will be madé available on short notice

for any assignment the Agency may have for him.

Questions

to be re-

solved

?..

What Is extent of the possible utilization of

lopez over the perlod of the next year and in the

future? (O HqUe SoMe Mque wORK ICAS

Based upon the above, what would be in equitable

contract arrangement, f.e., how much money is Lopez

worth to WH Division when most of his time will

be spent working for

in-

dicates that after he begins to make a contribu-

tion to

(Probably six months to a year) they

would be willing to pick up a portion of the con

tract costs but they see no justification for such

an action at present.

THIN" TUiLL

$ 17000

---

## Page 99

201-953203

---

## Page 100

ter"

201- 353÷03

---

## Page 101



---

## Page 102

14-00000

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN BLANKI

N° SD 33223A

DATE

1 DO HÉREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

Hens, 8. Loug

Heary P.

SMAMA: PRiNTRO On TYPEWRITTENI

RIANT THUMD PRINT

WITNESS:

SECRET

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N°SD 33223B

DATE

NATURE ARE MU

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG.

Канамятиат

Edward D. Tchbrin

Extrard G. Plahborn

RIGHT THUMD PAINT

WITNESS:

SECRET

---

## Page 103

HENRY P. LOPEZ

EDUCATION

LaL. B.

Harvard Law School, 1948

Graduate Schcol of Economics, Harvard University 1941-45

B.A. University of Denver, 1949

(sunma cum laude)

Graduato Study, Universidad Nacional de Mexico, 1955.

SCHOASTIC HONORS

Phi Beta

Kappa, 1942

President, Harvard Law School Forum 1947-48

National

Fellowship, Harvard University, 1944-47

Editor,

University of Denver, Clarion, 1942

Winner, National Intercollegiate Speech Contrjt,.1942.

PUBLICATIONS

"Some People and a Country I Love" by Katherine Anne Porter

and lank Lopez, Harger's Magazing, September 1965

"The Late-late Lovers"

"Back

to Bachimba"

The Atlantic. Monthly, Winter 1966

Horizon, winter 1966

"Use of Interpreters" California Procedure during Trial,

University of Cajifornia Press, 1960

"Foruns as Adjunct to Legal Study" Journal of imerican Bar

Association. l'

:7

"Dead Ringer"

short stury, Chicago Jewish Forum, 1955

"Migratory

Labor: A Mexican Dilemma"

Frontier Magazine,

1955 Republished in Mexico,

1961

"Cross Examination of Medical Witnesses" NAACA Legal Journal,

1952

"The Language Curtain"

Frontier Magazine,

1964

Editor-Publisher of Dialogos, Mexican Literary magazine

WORK XPERIENCE

Guest

Lecturer on Trial Procedure, University of California

saw School, Lecture series for "Continuing Educatior

Of the Bar" 1960

Attorney, Johnson, Lopez & Wolfe, Los Angeles, California - 1948-60

Attorney, specializing in international law: Moheno & Lopes, address:

Mexico City (Insurgentes Sur 594-302)

Actor-Lawyer, "The Verdict is

Yours", CBS Television rethori drama

(Acted in 94 half-hour shows,

1961-63)

Legai Consultant,

National Labor Relations Board, Los Angeles,

California 1948

Psychiatric Interviewer, Massachusetts General Hospital, 19÷5-46

Field Representative,

Offica of Coordinator of Inter-Ascrican

Affairs, Derver Office, 1944

5610253703

---

## Page 104

FaN? CORPORATION

=2÷

POLITICAL BACKGROUND

Democratic Nomince for Secretary of State of California, 1958

Received 2.500,000 votes in first try for elective

office.

National Fiald Coordinator,

Democratic National Headquarters.

VIVA KENNEDY CLUBS, Washington, D.C.

HAVE LECTURED AT.

Harvard University (Center for Latin American Stüdies)

Stanford University (Seminar on Political (thics)

University of California (re Mexican-American in politics)

U.C.w.A: (Continuing Education of the Bar serics)

Occidental College (Political Science division)

University of denver (Foundation

for Adv. of sco. sci.)

East Los Angeles Junior College (Sociology Dept.)

Moxico City College (Economics Dept. 1955)

Los Angeles State College.

(Sociology Dept.)

University of Southern California

(night law School)

ORGANIZATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Committee on Federal Rules, Los Angeles Bar Association, 1953

Panel for Indigent Defendents, U.S. District Court, 1950-57

President, Council for Mexican-American Affairs, 1956-58

Member Ba.

of Dix-, West Coast Div. of National Urban League,:

1956-60

TRAVEL IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES

Have traveled extensively (mostly on business) in the following

courtries: Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua,

Panama, Costa Rica, Venezuela, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Brazil,

Baiti,

Cuba, Dominican Republic and Puerto RICo.

NOTE: Have been completely bilingual since

chilahood.

---

## Page 105

361-1753203

---

## Page 106

201-253203

---

## Page 107



---

## Page 108

53201

119

For Secretary of Stare

HANK LOPEZ

OFFICIALLY ENDORSED DEMOCRAT

Henry P. Lopez was born on May 28, 1920 in

Demer. Colorado. He is the father of Sten, 6,

Gregory, 3, and Drusilla, 6 months. His wife.

Mildred, is from Lexingion. Kentucky: and they

live in Los Angeles, California.

THE FACTS

addless: home!

4553 August

Education:

for 6505 wilchine

(a) L. L. B., Harvard Low School, 1943

(b) Graduate School of Economics, Harvard University 1944-45

(c) B. A., University of Denver, 1944

(8) Groduale study, Universidod Nocional de Mexico, 1955

Scholastic Honors:

(a) Phi Beta Kappa, 1942

(b) President, Harvard Low School Forum, 1947-48

(c) National Fellowship, Harvard University, 1944$7

(d) Editor, University of Denver, Clarion, 1942

(o) Winner, Notional Intercollegiate Speech Contest, 1942

Writer and Lecturers

(a) "Forums as Adjunct 1o Legal Study." Journal of Americon Bar

Associction, 19,47

(c)

Republished in Mexico

(d) "Cross Examination of Modicol Winesses" NACCA Legal Journal, 1952.

Wide Experiences

(o) Altorney, speciolizing in triel work, 1949 1957

Address: 453 So. Spring St. L a Angeles, Colifornia

(b) Legal Consultant, flational Labor reiations Board,

Los Angeles, Californio, 1943

(c) Psychiatric Interviewer, Massachusetts General Hospitol, 1545-26

Voraran:

(a) U.S, Army Medical Corps, 1942-13; staff sergeant

Political and Organizational Activities:

(a) Committee on Federal Rules, Los Angeles Bor Assa., 1953

(b) Panel for Indigent Defendants, U.S. District Court, 1950-57

(:)

Prosident, Los Angeies Young Domocrati, 1950.51

(d) Southern California Chairman of Spookers for

James Roosenalt-Helen Douglas Campaign

(0) Dollars for Democrats Chairman, E3nd Assembly District

(1) Presidont, Council di Maxicon Amprican Altoirs: Board of Diractors

.G. 1. Forum, flember of Urban Leagu and NAACP

(6) Logal Counsol, Comminity Serriso Organization

401 S. lormont Are.

Los Angetes, Calif

DU. #4110 • YA. 1009

Hereas Chairman

ANTHONY QUINN

256 Suster Se.

San Francison, Calif.

EX. 2-5985

---

## Page 109

Hens le loves

S0xE::

1920, Denvex

Education

BA University of Denver (Sunna Cun Laude) 1944

it. B. Harvard Law 1948

Experience.

Wide range of expertence as attorney,

lecturer, writer,

politician, soclal worker, and bustness consultant

---

## Page 110

INTERVICH

COVER, SAG.

At the first moting and the one the next day before I mede the

main trip. y principal local political contact presented a pousble

cost of operations in the coming election. I asked him if it vere a

realistic figure and whether his analysts vere realistic.

He adultted

that it really wasn't and I told him to go back and sharpen hie pencil

and aft down and talk sense. It was therefore agreed that when I came

back fron ry trip ve vould alt down and go over it district by distriot,

and problem by problem.

He and his political cohort tried to lay out an

Itinerary for me and they recommended the people I would see In each town.

Our boy there dutifully wrote down all these names for me and then ve

very dutifully threw the list avay when it was all over and we started

maling up our on list. Sona of tha people you gave me I included in

the list and saw. Aleo, our boy hed a number of people. We bots agreed

that this trip would have to be played by sar, since after you arrive

you have a better idea of what you are doing

The oniy strategy that

we really agreed on was that I would take a plane and fly from the

south up.

I did exactly that. • I flew over to the south and then went on,

smelling around.

I used thrue methods: (1) street interview. shor

1481604753203

---

## Page 111

The third sothod corcerned courts, lawyers and Bar Associations. d

any town where there was a court, be it a ragistrate court or a distrlot

court, you alvays found that there was a courthouse and that in it was a

part called the Bar Association; which was a room where those lawyero met

and somecue would serve tea or coffee.

If you walked in you would usually

find at loast one lawyer there. I introduced tyself in the following

namers I am sorand-so from Detroit, a member of the Bar. I have

been practising for thirty-odd years and an interested in the judiclal

systen and processes of your country. In no time, you have half of the

Ear association alttin, at the table serving you tes and coffoe (I guess

It was tea because I hate their coffee; I hate coffee and theira is even

vorse). I would then start talling about my trio, my interest in the local

national situation, and then start asking questions which I already knew

the ansvers to.

For example, "how do you discipline a lavyer; who gets off

base?"

and they would explatn their nethods of appeal, high court and

how the judges are appolated. I had that explained to me a million times.

And every tine they would explads their system to ne, I would tell them

how it is done in our country. I was actaally giving them s lecture on

Anarican Jurisprudence.

I was surprised to hear those lawyers tell me

idth great pride hov able, honest and fatr their judges are, because I

had discovared that officialdon there la as corrupt as all hell. They

explained to me why their judges vere appunted and about their careers,

and tais gave me a base of operations.

I explained how in my state, we

elect judges and that this system has been in existence since the 1800 g

and

ye finally decided that that was a hell of a system and that we have

triod to change our constitution so that we could now have the same land

of system that this little country has. I pointed out that tuere are thinga

they can learn fron us and others that we can learn fron then.

That was the

tochnique.

They were very happy that I could see sonething about them

wbich we want to copy.

As I said before, you lace that the local individual

1s buagty for praise,

to get recognition

and to have sondone say something

nice about bie.

Ho will take It if you can give it to him ulth a shovol;

Do will callovo anything you tell him if it 1s nice. lil give you en

ergyplos my tochnique vas to talk vith lasgers.

In each town volch had

a coNspaper I would somenor arrange to got an introduction through a local

porana to the publiaher or oditor, ur mayoo both, of the neuspapers (be 1t

mo al a Political Party, os an Indopandent paper - I

a Cantant at do I vast vith chio explanations I vao a vidover, ay udro

Bar than all).

---

## Page 112

14-00000

died a lou yeare ago and I vas a littlo smotionally upeet (which to

true and wasn't hard to eay) and that I was told that one posalblo cure

was to got avay on a long trip and wy son insisted that I take this trip.

It la interesting at firut since you see so many museums, rooms and art

galleries, but it gets boring and I was getting sdos and tired of thlugs

and was about ready

to go home, when I ran Into a altuation that really

Intereste ne - polities. Here lo something that 18 after your own

beart, tbia local altustion. I becere Goddamned curtous. Here vas the

opportunity to tour this country and to put uy trip on a profit basde by

proparing articles on what has happened there, what might happen in the

future and so forth. I made It logical enough. At Mrst I trimmed it

pretty well with a lot of stuff about how I love these people (and that is

true too) •

My experience ith them has been protty much limited to students.

My uxperience with them has niways bean wonderful and I love them. They

were fine young men and women, I still find them to be interesting young

men and women and that I have a natural affinity for them.

They liked

that. I said also that I had a sympetly for their mon, their problems and

their traditions.

In my contaotu throughout the area I maintalned the same story.

was lucky to hit on the right formula in the beftaring and found that it

worked. With very few variations, I stuck to the mely thems.

Very often I would fall into a good intervieu. For example; I was

looking for a small bustnessman with a factory.

I asked a man whare to

find bim and was led to a layer's office. This vas a very fortunate

mistake; a couple of times they turnod out to my advantage.

This Langar

turned out to be a fella who was very well infared and who had previously

been in polities. He vas also close to the Ranan Catholio hierarchy. And

he gave ne an interlow which summarisod the informed opinion that I had

run Into lo that aros. (He also took me to the unversity and introduced

me to the priest who was the head of the schcal. There I had a chance to

interview students who shoved an unwilllagness to adilt that they don't

understand and don't know; that pald off for n.) He characterized the

typical interviev I got from the typical inforaed porson.

In these later

reus I tried to be objective and find out, rather than lnspire answers.

Very frequently, I vould run into some peracn who had a bright boy

galag Into prep school wanting to go to collage, - suggested that he sight

apply for collect and for s scholarship.

I Bald that I vam't an affialal

and didn't kao the assuers, or protend to, but I created the Ingression

that there vas a possibility of applying for acholarähips to the schools,

or even to the V. S. Coverasent. (I actuclly do Intand to find out about

those things and follou it through since they vero vary helpful to so and.

I as very pratorul.)

Thoro waa some truth to what I sald to than and I

wam't sating up storiea out of hule cloth, Thera vas a baalo fos

arorathias 1 old to then although thoro sigue bayo bean dues oxagoraliod.

Hovoror, In tho main, I could toll the story ules great cindloloncy sor

---

## Page 113

14-00001

basicalls it is a fairly truthful story.

I vent to major citles along the bay. off to the alde I went up to

a sanctuary nearby since everyone said that if you didn't go up you veren't

a tourtst and since I wanted everything to look on the level, I nade the

Visit. I stoppod at every village tr I could speak English there I

would; if not, I used this young fellow which vas sometimes satiafactory.

But you see, sometines the villager or the shopkeeper could speak English,

or some idd could and would translate and thay vere wuch more faithful to

the meaning.. The driver got to thinking that he knew what answers I wanted

and that ruined his usefulness. I kept saying that I wanted to low what

they were saying, not what I would ike to have than say; that how can I

wilte a good story if I don't on the truth.

He got to the point where be

was trying to figure cut what I was after and was going to give me the

right answers. Hence I banded him right in the beginning. But i ren

into sons Idds about 13 or 14 years old and used them an interproters;

they were good.

I saw at least a dozen or more of the newspaper publishers

and correspondents, two of the editors of two different Conmunist newspapers,

and I talked with four or five of the Camunist leaders. I also talked

to about five of the secondary people inea political party and one af

the nore important people in the latter. I talked to the Town Chairman

(mayor) In about balt a dozen touns. I also talked lith a local official

and to sars other old-tiners who are not active now, but will be in the

campaign.

I feel that as a result of ny survey I can give a fairly

authoritative opiatan co what the situation 1s, why and what the futura 1s.

I am confident tbat sy reactiona are sound and that my conc)ustons vill

be accurato.

questions Did you experience any control's, anywe seking your name,

otc. In the airport?

Answers Only in the hotels, or when I entered and

left the country. At the hotels you make a full police report. When the

othors whon I ergajed In conversation (and told them what I was trying to

learn) asked where I was going next, I would ask them what they suggested

how far it 18, what was a good hotel, etc. I nould trick then into it.

Thua I trtol to be a littlo naive, I vas only concerned once.

Questions

Did you ever talk voluntarily or involuntarily to anyone who

you knew to bo & Filleshan? Ansvers I talkad voluntarily to uniforneu

cops and asked questicos and directiona.

I chose my questions with great

car.d.

Although It looksd very infarmal, I had it pretty well planned.

Since

each quistica rusgested anotner, it formed a pattern and vas very logical.

I vas a very happy person and lound a lot of things to laugh about and a lot

uf thinga to pralso (tula la ono thing thet I had susgested). Keeping in

and that I was a tourist, I vent out of ay way to find and seg things

and I vent to sany places shich I foll vero Maiculous. (Subject talka

hero abult personal asperiencos in hocols, plumbing, ste.)

---

## Page 114

usual thing ta that part of the country. Hence, I set about to remove any

mugotclon. I acted very much Asertcen, being all over the place and being

curt ouss but I gave purpose to wy custodity and explained it 1a oach place.

Everyhero engaged people in conversation and gathered other people,

explaining my purpose, interests and why I had such Interesto l tblok

that in each instance I logically explatned w presence and worked lato the

questions that I eskod. I thlak the idea of going to the Comanista

accomplished my purpose. I vas not a subject of interest to the neuspapers,

which I night vell bave been had they had suasicions. I worked out in the

open. In dining roons I would find some oxcuse to say "do you sueak English?"

and unally someche did. "Could you explain something to ma — how ia this

Propared? Ho don't have it in the U.So, ote." Pretty soon to vere atting

together, ordering a drink and invarlably the omer of the hotel would come

and elt with us and toil me he would write a note to a particular newspaper

editor eto. an a recult, I found that about half of the tire I was

drected to people. I never folt that I was suspect, except by Anericans,

and I think they thought that I was checking up on them since they tried

to avold ne.

Questiont Did you over find, os heye the feeling, that you were

folloved fron the alrport, sto.? Answers I had that feeling once,

but

I wasn't boing followed. For example, I had the feeling that I had seen

the sane man 1o soveral places, but diadosed it because I dida't soo him

agala. Also, so meny of those people look a11kg, that I may have toen.

confusad, In the airparto. I engaged people in converestica, alvare ploving

the role of the curlous Abertons, but primully one who lo happy idth their

country.

---

## Page 115

UNCASSIFIED

INTERNAL:

"ONLY:

• CONFIDENTIAL

OUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

FROM,

CA/PAO:

buddigl

DAT

•ANCERS

INAMAT

C/CA

Per your requeet.

Bing

info

12.

13.

SECRET

COMFIDENTIA"

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 116

Reary Preston Lope:

Biographie Information;

Born: May 28, 1920; Deaver, Colorado

Bducation:

Law School, 1948; Graduate Study, Universidad Rectonal

de Mexico, 1955

Veteran: U.S. Army Medical Corps, staff sergeant, 1942-43

Duployment:

Peychlatrio Interylever, Nassachusetts General Rospital,

Boston, Mass: 1945-45; Legal Consultant, National Labor

Relations Boare, Los Angeles, Celifornia, 1948; Attorney,

spectalizing in trail work, Los Angeles, 1949-Apru Cl;

now in Washingtou arranging for new employment.

Political and Organizational Activities: Connittee on Federal Aüles,

...Los Angeles Bar Association, 1953; Panel for Indigent

Defendents, U.S. District Court, 1950-57; President,

Los Angeles Young Democrate, 1950-51, Southern California

Chairman for James Roosevelt-Helen Douglas Campalga:

Dollars for Denocrats Chalrea, 53rd Assembly District;

President, Council of Mexican-American Affairs; Bound of

Districts G:I. Porum, Member of Urban League and NAACP;

Legal Counsel, Community Service Organization; Unsuccessful

candidate (Democrat) for Secretary of State, Californts,

1958.

Family: Wife, Mudred and three mlnor children

Residerce:

Los Angeles, California until about April 1962 at which

time be and his fanily moved to Washington, D.C.

---

## Page 117

in irit

---

## Page 118

FERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PARTY - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATICA

STRUCTIONS;

DATA

AAWE((0088)

HENRY

PRESTON

MANS IN ATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCO

LOPEZ

on time do to 150

Pery fatime heilan,

Крез

Hone:- Nepry Prestor

is englieged in to comin

OF BIRTH

PERSONAL.

May 281720

Social drintera only

8. PLACE OF BIRTHi.

Denver, Celerade

COURT RECORD (COUrS.

None

DISCRPATION

9c.

•SEX:

Sex.

COLOR

•OF HAIR

tia: K

SCARS

3m all

DO, AGE

32

HEIGHT

39

2- $

Dia coLoa of LyEs

Braven

MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHINE FEATURES

06.

let't foream

Dj• TEETH

GENERAL APPE

I'm tell I lock like a professar

PROMINIAT FRATURES

DEO OTACO IUIATITYINE FRATURES

Arer tin plasses

ATYAON

SUSPLES OF SIGITIDE AND

10a0 10. 1050

175

ata, il possiblo)

CONPLEXION

t=s

Ime doun

89• FACE (SAP)

bEA.

foir

Shy maội +

16-501

---

## Page 119

UBSCOVENT CIT12

EnsHiPs (ll dillorone

OF CERTIFICATE CRANTED

Mexico

195 3

=54

=5G

Suha

sunces of

SECTION TITT

. PRESENT OCCUPATION

Attorne

FOMANCIAL STATUS (Earnings. bank der

Egro stout "15,000 fa

1.955

NOES ADRIN

OCCUPATIONAL; AND'F

¡ANCIAL DAT

2: 74 TE

self = employed

irien' and

20,000 per yes

SECTION HIY

ORGANIZATIONAL: AFFILIATIONS

MEMBERSHIP I#

RELIGIOUS ORGAÑIZATIONS

None

¿ PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONSI POLITICAL RFFTLIATIONS

Bar

assocratións

Harvard Clud

Many Deniocratie angonzations (see attoched sheet)

501. Free Forum (Valeran:

SECTION V

LOCAL PAL DATA

I SCHOOLS

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL:

MANE OF COURSE

DATES

ATTENDED

University if Dearer

Politeral science

1439

1144

Harvard University

Harvard Lam Seheal

Unisrit, of Marteo

Graduate senorl

Econeriss

Lou

1944

1$4.5

194%

Anthrepelegy

19 54

2. LANGUAGES AND DIALEGIS

LANGUAN

• COMPETENCE

SEND

salon pach laranade

hich yo

any

learna of copposence.

WRITE

YES

HO

Sparish

S. SALARY (POR AnAUS,

varies.

DEGREE

RECEIVED

B.A.

L.C. B

UNDERSTAND

YES

---

## Page 120

SECTIONM

SPECIAL QUALIFIZATICNS AND

ANT: "RITANG.

GIVE DETAILS INCLUSING TITLES Si

BOCAS DO ARTICLIS, ALSO MANES DI PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICA:

(a) "Porums as adjunet to Local Study", Journil of American

"Dead Riafer"

Sar association, 1947

•(c)

a sort story, Ericacu Jesis Corum,.

ieratory Labori a Loxicar Silenna,

1955

(d) "Cross Exerination of Medicht Mitresses,

Frontler ne, 1955

Journal,: 1852.

MOBBLES SUCH AS DÁDIO, PHOTOCHAPMY. ITC.

SECTION VIS

. COUNTRY

United States

DATES

* 100

1948

1944

MILITARY SERVICE

UNIT

UoS.

Arny

Ladical

Corps

•aMs

Stäff Sgt.

Assistent First Sgt

PRISONER

COUNTRY.

ANERE SERVICE PERFORMED. DECORATIONS

NOTE:

EXPLOYMEIT HISTORY

INDICATE CHRONOLOSICAL

HISTORY OF

EMPLOYVENT LISTING LAST POSITION SPEST:

INCLUDS AY COVERNUENT ENFLOrEvT

1942516

01916 100-701 2.

harvard

TYPE OF

Scho00110s1

S. ADDRESS

Boston, Mags,

WORK

SALARY OR EARNINGS:

lassaccusatts Goneral Hospital

psyc latric interviever

REASON FOR LEAVING

INCLUSIVE DATES (FTOS-YON?: IMPLOYER

F35 per hour.:

Pressure of luy studies

3:. ADDRESS

1948

tat'1

Labor

Rolat!

TiPE OF WORK

Board.

seventa St

SALARY OR EARNINGS

REASON FOR TRAVING

LOS MaGULeS, 0311R

Attorner

125.00 jr w.

INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOD-TO) 2.

EMPLOYER

So enter private practica

3i ANDRESS

1918-1953

TUPE OF MORK

nada diaguna: (asseclate)

SAL GÄY OR

REASCA

250 1111sa1ra BIrd

attornor

INCLUSIVE DATES PErON-TON E

15.000 1" 10a

1953- present

solf emalored

TrPE OF HORK

SALARY OR EARMINGS

Attorner

Variest

LACLURIVE DATES (FROO-TO) E

CUPLOTID

DORES!

6505 FAlshare 31rd. Les ingoles

RCASON SOR iLANIDG

stild here

ADORESS

SALARY DA CANNISGS

---

## Page 121

SECTION IX

MARITAL STATÜS

SEPARATED

AMMULMENTS

ANNULLIO

WIFE OR

HUSBAND'::

IN YOU MÄVE BEEN MARRIEG MORE

THAN ONCE"

INCLUDINO ANNULMENTS, USE SMECT FOR FORARA MIRE OR HUSDANO

GIVING DATA

REQUIRKO DECON FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

?: NAME OF sPOUsE

(riene)

(Middle›.

(Neo)

(LOT)

TS, PLÄCE OF MARPIAGE

CHILDREN

SECTION I

SEX

FULL NAME

OF

BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NATIONALITY

AT. BIRTH

•SUBSCOUENT CITIZENSMIPS MELO ON ANY CNILO CLEARLY ChILd and aiRO MID.

dor.

pranone addrone)

SECTION

---

## Page 122

STERS

FULL MANE

ANY BROTNER OR

became incrican citigen in 1943.

Saction

RELATIVES. ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

RELATIVES: IN ANY BOVERNMENT SERVICEI

PADICATE MORE OF GOVERMENTS AND POSITIONS MELD.

None.

RELATIVES, FRIENOS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (ExpLoio

lanship)

None

• NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IM U.S:

(Give ne

daro. city. and numbor.of cers

Parents woro

naturalized in 1951.

granted)

NAMES.

ALIASES.

SERViCE.

TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF.

ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED

Hone

SECTION XY

LIST. CLOSE ASSERL

PERSENAL: ASSOCIATICAS

SECTION XVI:

MISCELLANEOUS

0018

---

## Page 123

HENRY P.LOPEZ

ATTORNEY AT LAW

OSCS WISHIRE BOULEVARO

LOS ANGELES 48

ONE S07OS

1. I entorod polltics 1a Los Angeles 1a 1949.

2. Donocratie nominee for Socrotary of State of California, 1958.

Flectod president of Los Angeles Young Donuerats, 1950-51 •

3. I was chairman of Speakers Bureau for James Roosovelt,

candidate for Govornor of California, 1950

I uns chairman of Speakers Bureau for Holon Ganagan Douglas

cundidate for U.S. Sonator, 1950

Lomber of Minorition Committo for Adlal Stevenson for President

9 and l lon en be

Have participated in numerous other local campaigns.

1. Presont activitles:

(a) Nonber, Democratic State Central Cons

(b) Member, Lost Contitoo, Dono Matll Conv

(c) Bourd of Dircotors, Democratic ilnority

Confcrenca

(d) Executive Comm., 63rd Assembly Dist.

5. I have ronoined activo.

And It's quite possiblo that I

may run for Congresa in 1960 or 1962, dependina

on tho

political climate.

---

## Page 124

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART II - OPERATIONAN

INFORMATION

PRO NO.

DISPATCH NO.

author ily on

PA"

bardo orieno boot Dortóblo In.

blog and los ü1) 600

"pose required

SECTION

INDICATE NON:

WHIRE.

?. PSEUDONYM

Edward 0. Ilchborn

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

AND OY MHOM SUADECT DAS FIASE CONTACTED OR DEVELOPES.

INCICATI DiETHER SUBJECY COULO DE TUPNCO OVER QUICKLY ANO IN A SECUME NANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OUPICRA VOR

MANDLITÓ, IF SO, IMDICATE TO MNOM.

Subjeat can ba turned oros to iny responedble once officas by Horsee V. Devle.

LIST STACR CASE OFFICERS SNO HAVE MANOLED SUBJECT ÓR ENOM NE INDOS OR NAS INDON. GIVE DAMES ON EMICH THEY NAVI

MIRM

1ot4Y4

, aro si 1050d

+RR4A6X8 OC9N 13-880

EICH MAN

SECRET.

301-253203

---

## Page 125

-SECRET

MOTIVATION ANU CONTROL

" THE

Anestoen eiffsenstdp, Member of the Bes, politioal asplratlone

SECTION 1I0

COVER

COVER USED ON SUPIECT ANO CASE OFFICER IN THEIR NEETINOS.

Cans officer uned the allas Henry M. Derida.

COVER USEO' BY SUBJECT IN GOTATAIDE MI3 INFON

TION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORNANTS

INDICATE SERVICE FOR ANICH SCHNECT THINKS HE

(Mi88. work) (1s

-workings.

CIA

SECTION BY

INTELLIGENCE CONMECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIN SUDJECT'S INDI PASS CA PRESENT CONNECTION DITH ANY OTHER INTEELICENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT

SUCH CONNECTION

iS KNOWN

OVERTLY

1S

Subjost does not bollevento have had past as preseat comactione idtb

Intolligenos sar loos.

TATERDA, MIO MACA DI SUOSECT•S PRESCAT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

" CIST OTHER INDIVIUALS

Ho 0De

CAPLAIN ANY TRAIMINO SURIACT MAS MAD IN CLANDESTIME OPERATIONS.

No A.

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER PORCIDA PORIA SEDUICE DOULD DE MOST LINELY

TO COLLADORATE

WiTH ACCAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAS!

ASSOCIATIONS.

SECRET

---

## Page 126

SECRET

ONAL: USE: - : CONTACT:

SECTION VI'

•I SUDUICT NAS DIEN USCO UN CONTRETED

MATICA

ME. NAS. FURMISHID.:

Never contested before

AMICA ME HAS ENGAGIO AND IMA IYPE OI

INOSCATE MOT AND InOM MOM SUAJECT OB

"NO CATE

THAT MAS BEEN TOLO SULJECT AS: TO THE DISPOSITION Of INFORMATION HE FURNiSHES.

A.: OCTAIL SUBJACT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TIRE USE OR DUTIES..

No do

DETAIL

SUBJECT'S PROPUSIO PRiPM TYPE USE OR

Subjoot sdll ba nead in political sotion oparations.

SECTION VII

'PROPOSED LIAISGH" OR OPERATICHAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUQJECT"S PROPOSEO LIAISON TURE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A. ONERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FORTIN GOVEPAMENTI

Ho do

THERE SUBJECT 1S

1208261

Ho do

SECTION VIVI

AGERCY

RELATIONSHIP

wITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN MATIOR OF AGINCE ALL ATICASHIR DITH SUBUICTA

dil.

TRAINIE, OPPOSITE NUMOLA, DEBUAIRATION, IT ARY.

AGENCY

PIASONATi ARDAM. TO SUDDECE.

ubjoat idll ba gaven a standard consultant contrast valaa ss zucasalt

Lando vill be casaded for Saraton IDY's. Tilo concultant contract wil

SECRET

---

## Page 127

SECTION "IX

INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES. TALENTS.

FOR OTHER OPFRATIONS.

Retive Kuney In Hordcan-Spenteb.

SECRET

QUALIFICATIONS FOR CHER OPERATIONS

ICATIONS POSSESSIO BY SUBJECT WICH COLLO CONCTIVARY BE OF

COMMODITIES.

OSED TO PAY SUBJECT A RECULAR SALARY

suBsior

OR OTHiCA NETHOO, SPECIFY AND GIVE

THE PEEXLY

DETAILS.

8. 4.,

MENT TO SE MADE IN ETCHANCE

of

subject

and

OTHERMISE NOT COVERED HEREIN.

MADE

•TO SUBJECT. (Exsaple:

Lowilaget

Hone

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AÑO FIELO FILES MITH ANION

SUBJECT-S MAME HAS

BEEN

CHECKED AND

Subjest holds Feedquarters POd.

THE RESORTSI

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES PAREN

VERIFY

BIOGRAPHICAL

INSORMATIDN FURTISHED BY SURJECT.

N. A.

INDICATE

NETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERA

PROVAL

FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS

T.1 08 AL

APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP-

A: DATE APPOSIN DOTAIMEO

Yes

PacerouslY

"STAINED.

CT719

EVALUATE

21 My 1959

SUBJECTiS CHARACTER.

RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE MEDI

Subject appeared to undarstand the necasty for security. Hia charenter

and rallibility have been vall attested to. Fran linited observatica thay

would appear to be titties, gred.

EXPLAIN

ANT SITUATION

OR

RATIONAL SECURITY NIEMPOINT.

IMSISCRETICA IN OMICH SUBJICE DAY MADE BEEN INVOLVED MICH MUST BE FORGEDITO FROM A

Hone knoin.

SECTICH XIL

1. U98 DO LIQUOR, BRUOS, CANCLINA. PAS

Sodally

SUBJECT'S PERSONN

HABITS

SECRET

---

## Page 128

SECRET

INDICATS' SUMIRET'S MORBIOS O iNTEREST iN

Union our

SECTION XIY

• 07.

HETHER

COUNTRY TOR

SUBJECT"S LANGUAGE: ABILITIES:AND

MES. OUN

CS. ARC SUCHAS HE COULD DASS S A KATIVE

Med cen Speake-the lenguazo idth native fluenty. Looka 11ke c00.

8.: iNDICATE

"NETHER INFORMATIÓN IN PRO PARTS I AMO 11 MAS OBTAINCO BY RESENACH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSENT. GILES.

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS..

Information la PRQ Part 1 was provted by subjoot; Part I from cbeavatl∞-

!.. THEE THAN ROUTINE ACTICA IS REQUIRED, I AND KHEN TERMINATION OF

SUBJECT IS EFECTO. PLEASE EXPLAIN.

pers.

63b; supras

. CAlço

SECTION XY

GIVE FULL

DETAILS I.E. RECOGAITION SIGNALS.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTÄCT ARRANGEHENTS

"HERE COULD CONTACT

"MAT PORA FIDES: COULO INDIVIDUAL

MANIMG CONTICT USES

ubject will have to be recontacted by Horace H. Davia or scene ali

rovided idth a lettor fran Horace H. Davis as well as subjects siga

secrocy agrement.

OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARAS

SICHARUOS O1 APPODPRIAYA SEDIOS CRRICHA

85-0

SECRET

---

## Page 129

SECRET.

(Moles in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBLECT

IDENTiFIC

PERTINENT.

RE FILE NO.

OBSPATC

SOURCE CRYCTONYMI

P. DATE On

DISSEMiNATEO

NTWD.I SP

051

TION:

TRANSFERRIO TO

REXFILE NOW

-INFORMATION

•= DATE

•. CYALUATION

THERE IS A GESPRICTED CI/01 FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201

La92l, Etany P.

20108003

29 Jens 1955

paù co SEt Po Araijo 4523

20102522031

THERE IS A FESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDER ON THE SUEJECT

"OF THIS 201

TRACT FILE SLIP : (18)51

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE SO.

867 0 0.

SECRET

---

## Page 130

SECRET

o.0.)

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

•TO: RID/201 Section

поом NO.

TELEPMONG

NAME

(Last)

NAME 3 (2000)

SECTION

10 25 32032

" ("''**)

SOURCE DOCUMENT

(Middlo)

T NAME VARIANT

(Pirar)

(MIdalo)

(rielo)

sIX

(TIRIO)

PHOTO.

res

OTKER: IDENTIFICATION

OCUPATION/POSiTIN

CRYPTONYM

COUNTRY OF RESIDENCR

BINTH DATE

• CITIZENSHIP:

OTHER IDEN CODE

i3..

OCC/POS CODE

SECTION 11

PSEUCONTM

SECITON 11I

Ti. PalMARY DESK. INTEREST

12. 2HD

COUNTRY iNTERES!

1219.201

-77119

mait

IRA. BRO COUNTRY INTEREST

831 818

916a881398

201- 221n

SECRET

LaA: BEQUESTOR'S COPY

---

