# 104-10217-10051

## Page 1

104-.10217-10051

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

ICt

1613-L

i7 Septeber 1961

- 269349.

TOs

Analotent Cades of Staff, Intoll1geac0

DeparteenE of the Arry

Atta: ISR

Interagency source Roglater

8UBJ80TS OUTIBRAKZ HOnOyO, 81OY

(5D-8832)

Foference 13 made to the requeat dated 13 July 1981,

aubíeat as abovo,

whose nase you desired checked against the

files of this offica.

The files contain the following inform

ation concerning subjeet.

3. A report dated 3 Harch 1981 from an official Spanial

BOrvIOn indicatod that Bubject's flight to Florida with fuuds

belonging to the Army of Spaniah Liberation (ELB) was announced

on 28 January 1981 at the Second Latin American Conference for

Annesty for Spaniah and Partuguage Polstical Prisonera. Pidal

CASTEO had sentioned bla in a sposch as an "advanturer and a

gunnan"

forever, the report added that anti-CASTRO siements "

vorg cormenting that subjock's slight with the fle funds night

hayo been slaply & ruso to Introduce OUTIBAREZ intO anti-

revOlutIOnasy cIrCles da MOrIda.

8. InfOruBtIon raceIved In a report dated l Harch 1961

from & soy and untestod source indiented that subjoct was

considered an agent protocateur by the anti-CASTRO groupe.

These groups also bollowed that two of subject's compantons,

"Raned Angel BATOS and "IlkO" PEMIAS, VOTe setually Cubas

intelligence agents.

.

fran another new and untested source information dated

18 April 1861 indicated that Subject transparted sis tons of

MOADoRs and explosives to spal sons 115a in 1980. This equip

sent was eachod in cares and tombs in the nountatns of Asturias

10 Narthers spalo.

" acditian, source charged that subject ha

100 transported and hidden vespons and exploitos to variou

LadLA AMerICan cOuntrIeS.

A report dated 27 July 1861 tros in anovaluatod sourco

rowpaled that in 1953 Subjoct and hia fatbar vera deniad 9x18

paralis by the Cuban Government on the groundo that they sero

ES COPS SECRET FILE IN 201-269349

HOFORN CONTINUED CONTESI

..*

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NOFORM CONTINUED CONTA

Cumsunists.

Latos InTentIgatIon confiresd that dE. OUTTERlEr

Zabalata, Subjoct's father, was & mender of the Communiat Taird

International.

Although Subjeat was not then of legal ago, bo

vas considerod an activo participant in Communist activities.

After the assumption of pover by the CASTRO Governsent In

Janaary 1959, tho papers rogardlag this satter vere renoved

fron the f1les of the Departuent of Stato (Cuban) on arders

fron s high goveraront offlotal.

For additional infornation concerning subjeet you

aro roforrod to the fodoral Dureau of Investigation.

Attached for your Inforantion i8 a photograph of

Subjoet; also attached is a copy of our CSCI-3/784,125, dated

• 1 March 1981, subject; HENOYO, Outserrez-sloy.

The Interagency Source Begiater has no record of s

arent operational interest la Bubject.

I8B-3704

3 Attachaente as statod above

RID/CB: JWB/NT/1JY

Based On:

OSHA 12149

OOA 3,180,639

COA 3,192,290

OOK 3,183,899

OSHA

12149

SECRET

NOFORN CONTINEN CONTAC

---

