# 104-10129-10236

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10129-10236

tEC

DISSEM BEL

":UNIT NOTIFIED

LE CODY ISSUEDISLOTTED

:: UNiT

RF . FILE.

A8

TION #

F

DIEZUR

T

654296

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TOTAL COPIES 23-2

SECRET

RUN

BY

AT

UR DIL/FALK DDO 3 ES/RE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

ISTAFT

IS

116

IN 207098

21-1

(CARA)

32433

PAGE R1

TOR: 251645= MAR 77

SECRET

851633Z MAR 77 STAFF

21-17

CITE EAR AC AS) 32433

TO: DIRECTOR.

NNINTEL RYBAT MHORDER

1, CARACAS AFTERNOON DAILY "EL MUNDO" OF 4 MARCH HAS FRONT

DAGE STORY STATING THT POV ACCUSES EIGHT VENEZUELAN NEWS MEDIA

PERSONALITIES OF BEING CIA AGENTS, THESE ARE: RAFAEL POLEO,

ELIX MARTINEZ SUAREZ, SALFADOR ROMAN I, SOFIA

'IM BE RI AND CARLOS RANGEL, RAMON KOESLING,.

OMAR LARES, AND ROLANDO SLANED. NAMED IN SAME ARTICLE

45 "CIA SPIES" ARE ORLANDO SO SCE, RICARDO MCRALES

NAVARETTE, ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ, ANTONIO IGNACIO

SUSTILLOS PEREZI LUIS POSA DA CARRILES, FREEDY

LUGO, AND HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO.

2. IT WOULD SEEM THAT THE POV COMPILED THIS LIST FROM

PREVIOUS INDIVIDUAL NEWSPAPER EXPOSES FERHAPS WITH SOME ADVICE 24

FROM THE CUBANS: SOME OF THE ABOVE ARE EX-AGENTS, SOME ARECLIAISON

CONTACTS AND SUME WE JUST PLAIN NEVER HAVE HEARD OF. FORTUNATELY

NONE ARE CURRENTLY ACTIVE ASSETS. AS LONG AS POV, FUBLIC, AND

HOPEFULLY VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ATTENTION IS FOCUSED ON TARGETS

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

HELF SEE DISSEM SY-

_PER

ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED_

LENCE COPY

ISSUED'SLOTTED

•ATION UNIT

RF . FILE

SITION .

N

F

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RU..

BY

REPRODUCTION

BY

OTHER THA

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIBITEr

BY

AT

VR

STAFF

2

7654295

ELAZET

• PAGE 82-82

TOR: 851645Z MAR 77

IN 207098

(CARS 32433

OF THIS SORT; WE AND

PRESENT AGENTS ARE NOT IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY.

3. FILE:

175-129-122.

EZ. IMPDET.

REFERENCE

S

=

C

-R+ E

T

---

