# 104-10215-10216

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10215-10216

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• FOREIGH DISSE

CONTENTS

Introduction

Unit 1

Unit 2

Unit

Unit 3

Unit

Unit

into

Unit

7

Unit

8

Unit

Unit

10

Unit

11

Unit

12

Unit 13

Unit 14

Unit

15

Unit

16

Unit

Unit 18

Unit

Unit

20

Unit

21

Unit

22

Unit

23

Unit

24

EXPLANATORY NOTES

BASIC BIOGRAPHIC DATA

CURRENT POLITICAL BELIEFS

PRIOR POLITICAL BELIEFS

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME

REGIME'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SUBJECT

FINANCIAL STATUS

EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND

MILITARY EACKGROUND

FOLLOWING WITHIN THE MILITARY

OTHER PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND

FAMILY BACKGROUND

MARITAL STATUS AND CHILDREN

EXTRA-MARITAL ACTIVITIES AND/OR ABERRATIONS

PERSONAL HABITS

SPORTS, HOBBIES, SPECIAL SKILLS

CONTACTS IN CUBA

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA

TRAVEL

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS

MOTIVATION

STRENGTHS

WEAKNESSES

FIELD ESTIMATE

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXPLANATORY NOTES

In order that they may make maximum use of this dossier, users

are

urged to become familiar with the following information.

Military Ranks in Cuba

As reported 27 September 1963, ranks of the Cuban Revolutionary

Armed Forces are as follows:

Major in Chief (Comandante en Jefe)

Army Major (Comandante de Ejército)

Corps Major (Comandante de Cuerpo)

Major (Comandante)

First Captain (Primer Capitán)

Captain (Capitán)

First Lieutenant (Primer Teniente)

Lieutenant (Teniente)

Sub-lieutenant (Sub Teniente)

Sergeant First Class (Sargento de Primera)

Sergeant Second Class (Sargento de Segunda)

Sergeant Third Class (Sargento de Tercera)

Corporal (Cabo)

Private (Soldado)

Spanish Names

Much of the confusion concerning Spanish names can be eliminated if

one basic fact is clearly understood: Spanish speaking people use

their

nother's maiden name (matronymic) after their last name (patronymic).

For example, Fidel Castro's full name 18 Fidel Castro ruz--Ruz being

the matronymic (and in this case seldom used). In this dossier the last

name Is the one capitalized and will appear as

Juan GOMEZ Diaz, or

GOMEZ DÍaz, Juan

S-E-C-R-E-T

(continued)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Sera

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

HO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA

(Lazaro) Rolando CUBELA Secades

NICKNAME:

Comandante degge

of October 1963.

POSITION:

ost recently a student at Allianc

rancaise in Paris, France

ra) as

DFOB: 19 January 1933, Cienfuegos, Las Villas

Province.

(1961)

RELIGION:

LANGUAGES:

Spanish (native); English (fair to good); French (probably

good).

HEIGHT: 5' 11"

WEIGHT: 175 pounds

RACE: Caucasian

COLOR HAIR: Dark, wavy, thinning noticeably on top.

COLOR EYES:

Brown

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: Eyes rather small for his face, small

nose, almost petulant mouth, fair complexion, hair usually needs

combing.

Expression is tense unless he is bored or fatigued at which

time his left eyelid droops.

Dresses informally by preference, and is

prone to wearing a jacket without a tie.

When properly dressed,

presents a good appearance in a masculine way.

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS:

Casa Cubana, Paris, France.

November 1963

Unit 1

S-E-C-R-E-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

1421000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CURRENT POLITICAL RELIEFS:

Until 1961-62 Subject showed a pronounced anti-US and pro-

Communist; pro-Castro bias.

More recently, however, there has been

Information indicating that he does not hold to his former views and

Is thinking of leaving Cuba.

The progression of his political

thinking is visible in

the following extracts.

1959: A US resident of Cuba whose source was a

Cuban youth

leader reported that the swing to the left of the University Students

Federation (Federación. Estudiantil Universitaria - FEU) was confirmed

by the decision made at the end of November 1959 to become a full

member of the Communist-run International Union of Students (IUS).

(However, the FEU also retained' its association with the Coordinating

Secretariat, of the National Union of Students - COSEC.)

Editorial Note: Since this swing to the left of the FEU happened

only a month or so after Subject became president of that organization

It does not, seem likely that he could have so quickly influenced the

predominantly Catholic university. On the other hand, one of the FEU

vice presidents, Jos VENEGAS Valdespino, das by November heading

the Latin American Department of the FEU, an indication that the FEU

was organizing its area departments along the exact lines of the area

departments in the Cuban Ministry of State (Foreign Ministry?).

1959-60: Subject and other FEU leaders entertained a group of

Red Chinese students in Havans.

March 1960: An anti-Coumunist student. leader said that Subject

was neither pro- nor anti-Communist.

The source felt that Subject's

only desire vas to prevent discord during his term'of office as FEU

president.

March 1960: In late March a Mixed Commission at the University

of Havana met to discuss the establishment of Disciplinary Tribunals.

The president of the commission, Rafael SAVICS Jimenez, and others

objected, saying the old disciplinary councils had been suspended

because more modern and efficient legislation was being

studied by

the commission and it was only logical to vait until this legislation

was promulgated before establishing new tribunals. Ali the arguments

had no effect on Subject and Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia. Subject said he

had never seen so many Catholics and anti-Coumnists present on campus

"attempting to deny the existence of fréedon of speech and written

expression." He added that, "everyone knows that no one is more opposed

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lolzaro) Rolando

Unit 2

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FORBIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S-E-C-P-P-T

HO FOREIGN DISSEM

CIRPORT COLITICA SELLERS: (Cont'a)

than we are to coercion and violence."

Santos changed his vote, and the tribunals vere immediatedy est hished.

May 1960: Subject told a general assembly of university stucents

that Coumunist Professor Carlos Rafael RODRICUEZ Rodriguez was doing

his duty and must be given the same respect as other professors.

closel the meeting by scoring the counterrevolutionary attitude of

some students and said that the university could not be for those

traitors who prefer foreign intervention in Cuba."

May 1960: Subject, and bis followers in the FEU leadership held

the floor at the macabre "burial" of the newspaper Diario de la Marina

and not only turned it into a vicious anti-American dispiay but also

condemned the anti-Communist students at the university as eremies of

the revolution.

May 1960: The paper Informacion published a letter fron Joaquin

PEREZ Rodriguez, vice secretary of the School of Agronomy at the

University of Havana, in which he stated that so-called "terroristic

activities" of anti-Communist students were nothing more than a pre-

fabricated pretext on the part of Subject's clique to justify or

rationalize strong-arm methods against.all who opposed

the Conunist

minority. He asked how, if Subject's leadership deplored violence, it

could remain impassive

When the Communist youth from the Instituto de

la Habara entered the university grounds fully armed and perpetrated

acts of violence against him (Perez). He also asked what moral

authority Subject and Quevedo might hope to invoke when they vent

across caupus carrying arns in direct violation of university

regulations.

June 1960: Subject was in Uruguay as a guest of the pro

Communist- Federation

of Uruguayan Students.

He held talks with

Communists and gave press conference statements wrich included such

Communist-line items as "Fatberland or Death,

" "Death to Traitors,

"Anti-Castro students serve bastard interests," War criminals are

being trained at the Yankee base of Guantanamo," etc.

Octoker 1960: After a short trip to New York City with the Cuban

delegation to the United

States a responsible US consular official

said that his presence in the United States was prejudicial to the

national interest and recoumended that his valid visa be revoked.

October 1960: A State Department despatch noted that Subject!s

action regarding the Embassy evacuation notice, his violent

denunciation of that notice, and his denunciation of the Embassy

Itself in the local press clearly pointed out his anti-us blas.

(Lazar.a) Secades,

Unit 2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

14-00000

S-E-C-K-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CURRENT POLITICAL BELIEFS: (Cont'd)

December 1960: It was stated that Subject had gained prominence

In the FEU through Raúl CASTRO, It was allegedly coumon knowledge

that Subject had sold out morally and politically to Castro who had

forced him on the FEU as president after his lack of character and

political force became known.

Between January 1959 and the time be

became president of the FEU (October 1959) he served as a sort of

mediator between Communist and non-Connunist groups in the University

of lavana.

January 1961: Subject was reportedly to go to Spain in the near

future under a fictitious name and vithout his beard.

allegedly going to be chief uf an action group penetrating Spain fron

Cuba but this was alleged to be a

Subject's participation.

May 1961: Subject was a delegate to the Latin American Conference

on liational Sovereignty, Economic Independence, and Peace, in Mexica

CARDENAS del Riference was sponsored by Mexican Communist LazArO

Subject subscribed to the Charter of México, a

document containing anti-US resolutions.

1962: In May a report from Bern, Switzerland said Subject

wanted to flee Cuba and would try to get permission to visit some

European country and defect. In August his ex-wife was allegedly

telling friends that Subject did not intend to return to Caba fron

Helsinki, which he was then visiting. Also in August Subject

reportedly said that he was thoroughly disgusted at present, with the

situation in Cuba and planned to do something about it.

He stated

that: "foreign-controlled Cubar assets" had tried to contact hin but

"he avoided them."'

He did, however, plan to contact someone on bis

next trip out of Cuba.

1962: The US Army reported that Subject controlledthe students

at the University of Havana.

This report said that his loyalty to the

Coumunist Party was uncertain. It has been said at times that he bas

conspired against. Castro.

It has also been stated that he speaks

against the United States to please Fidel Castro.

CUBBLA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 2

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

14-00000

pray poi

F-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PRIOR POLITICAL BELIEFS:

At the time of

the Batista coup on 10 March 1952 Subject was one

of the first to start working against the Batista regime in Havans

University together with José Antonio ECHEVERRIA Bianchi (nos

deceased), Fructuoso ROPRIGUEZ (now deceased), Faure CHOMON 3

Mediavilla, Juan Pedro CARBO Servia (now deceased) and José MACHADO

(now deceased).

At the time of the 1955 border incident between Costa Rican and

Nicaraguan troops, Subject went to Costa Rica together with other

members of the University Students Federation to defend Costs Rica.

When he returned to Cuba he rejoined the fight against the Batista

In 1956 Subject participated in the assassination of Lt. Col.

Antonio BLANCO Rico of Batista's Military Intelligence (SIM).

defended this in a 1959 press conference, calling Batista a dictator,

assassin, despoiler of the riches of Cuba which left the revolutionary

government & legacy of a Cuban national debt of one billion dollars.

From January 1958 unt1l Batista's overthrow a year later Subject

fought in the Escambray Mountains as one of the leaders of the

Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio Revolucionario - DR) which had

made a formal pact with forces of the ahth of july Movement and with

the Second Front of the Escambray to work together until Batista was

overthrown.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 3

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO PORFIGN DISSEM

AiTITUDE TUMARD REGIME:

1959: During the early spring Subject reportedly frankly

expressed to Fidel CASTRO his dissatisfaction with the regime.

1959: Prior to September Sibject reportedly told intimates

that he was so disgusted with Castro that if he, Subject, did not get

out of Cuba soon be would kill Castro himself.

Early in Detober his

feelings reportedly had not changed.

March 1960: Following a near riot anong university students when

Communist and Radical elements, despite the efforts of the Catholic

groups, prevented by mass force the entry of anti-Coumunist, vell-

known comentator Luis CONE Apiero into television station CMe over

which he was to read an opposition letter to Pidel Castro concerning

Comunist infiltration.

political demonstrations would not be permitted within the university

and that still less would demonstrations organized by studeats who

aided the counterrevolution be permitted to ascend the university

steps.

If they did so, he said, they would not be able to return to

the university for they would ke judged before the Disciplinary

Tribunals and condemned as traitors to the fatherland and the

revolution.

May 1960:. He told a general assembly of university students

that Communist Professor Carlos Rafael RODRIGEZ Rodriguez was doing

his duty and must be given the same respect as other professors. He

closed the meeting by scoring the counterrevolutionary attitude of

some students and said that the university cannot be for those

traitors who prefer foreign intervention in Cuba.

May 1960: Subject and his follovers in the FEU lesdership beld

the floor at the macabre "burial" of the nevspaper Diario de la

Marina and not only turned it into a vicious anti-US display but also

used it to condemn anti-Communist students at the university as

enemies of

the revolution.

August 1960: An article in The Reporter stated that Subject had

"The university cannot stand aside from the nation. The

revolution must enter the university. Incompetent, immoral and

counterrevolutionary professors must go."

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 4

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGi DISSEM

then to

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME: (Cont'd)

August 1960: A Cuban busiresstas reported that a fake anti-

govermment movement headed by Subject had been initiated by followers

of the regine

for the purpose of infiltrating true anti-government

groups. He was reportedly using as agents Jose ABRAHANTLS Fernandez

of the 2oth of July Movemeut and Yallio Jaime FIGURES y Amas, liaison

officer between G-2 and the Ministry c? State and a member of

the

Cormunist Popular Socialist Party (ISP).

December 1960: It was said that he bad gained prominence in the

University Students Federation (Federación Estudlant1l Universitaria -

FF.U) through Rail Castro, to whom he hat sold out morally and

politically.

Februsry 1961: A report during tits worth stated that Subject

hai made overtures to various Embassies for asylum. This has not been

confirred.

anti-Castro indivijuals.

April 1951: A Cuban civil engineer in the United States said be

had received a message on 11 April frcI DI. Armardo de CARDENAS y

Aranguren (who defected to the United States ir August 1961) tcat

Subject wanted to defect but was under close surveillance and needed

an excuse to leave Cuba by legal means. Dr. Cardenas was called

Subject's "boy friend" in common gossip.

August 1961: Subject told an intiate friend prior to departure

for & tour of the USSR, the Soviet Elc, India, Japar, Italy, Spain

and France that he knew his useruiness

that if he remained in Cuba he world te liquidated in the very near

future.

He said tinat he had had serious arguments with Fidel CASTRO

and with Ernesto

"Che" GUEVARA de la Serna over his successor as

president of the FEU. Subject wanted to name his own successor ard

not accept their choice of the Coumunist Ricardo Alarcon, secretary

general of the FEU when Subject was its president. Subject also said

he was too involved with the actions of the Government of Cuba to

becone a defector like José PARDO Llada, but hoped to reain in

France at the completion of the above-nentioned tour to take post-

graduate medical work in a school in France.

Continued

CUBaLA Secades,

(Lazar0) Rolando

Unit 4

S-B-C-R-E-I

NO FORRION DISSEM

---

## Page 10

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME: (Cont'a)

In January 1962 a Cuban exile said that Subject had probably

decided not to defect because of fear that he would be put in an

Immigration detention camp (see Unit 23, Weaknesses).

April 1962: Fidel CASTRO sent one Inu CUBELA, possibly identical

with Subject, to the Interior to criticize local militia for their

attempts to win public support. He stayed at the home ci one

Eugenio HERNANDEZ, and publicly reprimanded the chief of the Carjuani

militia. Hernandez, who is an employee of the Department of Sanitation

in Camajuani, has a son, & classmate of Subject, who is & counter-

revoluticrary.

Wher Eernandez told Subject about his sen's activities,

Sübject did not seem concerned.

1962: The US Army reported that Subject controlled the students

at the University of Bavana.

His loyalty to the Commist Party was

uncertain.

It had been said at tires that he bad conspired against

Castro.

It nad also been said that he spoke against the United States

to please Castro.

1962:

He was reportedly involved in plotting the overthro: of

Fidel Castro with other members of the military and government,

specifically, Felipe GUERRA Matos, Comaniante Pedro MIRET Prieto,

Capitán Lester RODRIGUEZ Pérez (as of 23 Juiy 1963 director of

Perrous metallurzy, Metallurgical Branch of Consolidated Enterprises

which is subordinate to the Miristry of Industry), Corandante Faust150

Bergnes (Cuban Ambassaior to Be-gium

Nogal (who was in June 1963 secretary general of the Cuban Confeder-

ation of Labor), Capitan Juan NJRY y Sanchez and Corandante Jorge

SERGUERA RiVeri.

1962: During summer meetings with his friend Carlos TErEDIVO

Conzalez (now in exile in the Unitea States) he reporsedly said ticat

he could not go tack to his former wife ever if he wanted to because

she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the Castro regime.

He

also mentioned her desire to lesve Cuta.

This comment, was tased on

the supposition that Subject might be working agairst the Castro

regime in Cuba on his return to that country.

Continued

EJBELA Secades,

(Lázare) Rolardo

Unit 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

angerin

---

## Page 11

14-00000

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTTTEDE TOWARD REGIME: (Cont'a)

1963: In Paris in late 1963 a high-ranking official of the Cuban

Interior Ministry said that Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, an official of the

FEU, and Subject, a former studert leader, had resigned from the rebel

army after difficulties with Raul CASTRO.

The difficulties occu-red

after Subject and QUEVEDO hai completed a senior army training

and, instead of receiving the rank of corandante which they had held

during the revolution, were told ty Raul Castro that they were being

demoted to capitan. Both then resigned.

CUBELA Secades ,

(Lazarc) Roiando

Unit 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIIN DISSEM

---

## Page 12

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME 'S ATTTTUDE TOWARD SUBJECT:

1959: Subject was recognized as a leader of the Revolutionary

Directorate (Directorio Revolucionario - DR) group that fought in the

Sierra del Escambray.

March 1959: On 25 March the Caceta Oficial announced that

Subject had been promoted from comandante in the rebel army to

comandante in the revolutionary army and that he had been appointed

to the post of Cuban military attaché to Spain by Fidel CASTRO. He

left on or about 27 March to take up this position. It was reported

that there had been some friction between the members of the DR and

members of the 26th of July Movement. Members of the DR feit that

Fidel Cristro and the 26th of July were not giving the DR enough

recognition for their work in the combat against Batista. There was

also sun thought that this appointment of Subject to Spain was the

beginni.: i" an attempt on the part of the Castros to separate the DR

leaders,

second in command of the DR.

June 1959: An ex-DR leader was reported holding a position in

the Cuban Government.

On Subject's return from Spain he had been

appointed to a position of Under Secretary in the Ministry of the

Interior.

September 1959: Armando HART Davalos proposed to Fidel Castro

that the Ministry

of Education appoint a commissioner to supervise

university activities.

Castro said no on the grounds that it would

be offensive to the students, that it would show direct government

Intervention, and that the university had historically been autonomous.

As long as this continued the revolutionary authorities could not carry.

out a university reform program.

A practical approach was found when

the DR nominated Subject as a candidate for the presidency of the

University Student Federation (Federación Estudiantil Universitaria -

FEU).

Castro and other revolutionary leaders saw Subject as a

candidate who could be influenced and won over to the 2oth of July

Movement.

Castro showed no open indication that he supported either

Subject of the 26th of July's candidate, Pedro Luis BOITH; however,

It. was said that he had made a private deal with Subject to win con-

trol over the student body.

US officials coumented that this deal

seemed unlikely since Subject had previously told intimates he

would kill Castro if he, Subject, lid not get out of Cuba soon.

said that he was disgusted with the regime.

Another source gave the

same account but said that it was Raúl Castro rather than Fidel who

approached Subject. Subject resigned from his post as Under Secretary

in the Interior Ministry

to become a candidate for FEU president and

was elected on 17 October 1959.

Continued

CURBIA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 13

14-00000

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME'S ATTTTUDE TOWARD SUEJEET:

December 1959: Subject and Raul CASIRO were reportedly

surprised in the latter's home in the Camp Colombia headquarters

making obvious homosexual advances toward one another.

fell into disgrace with regime.

It is not known whether this was due

to his unsatisfactory performance as & student leader or whether he

had a falling out with Raul Castro.

It was supposedly common

knowiedge that Subject had obtained the FEU presidency through Raut

Castro to whom he had sold out morally and politically. It was also

said that he was picked for the FEU post becaüse Fidel thought he

could be controlled.

May 1960: As president of the FEU, Subject received the

(Pros the government) of inciting and bruiting about the fact that

the powers-that-be disapproved of Aureliaro SANCHEZ Arargo. The

Istter and & thousand-odd well-wishers who had gathered at the sir-

port to greet him on his return from Caracas were set upon by a swall

but well organized pro-Communist phalanx.

The government also used

Subject and Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, then secretary general of the FEU,

cü attäck (Manuel) Antonio de VARONA y Loredo, Aureliano Sanchez

Arango aud (Rafael) Mario LLERENA Rodriguez for their participation

in the Second Congress for Liberty and Democracy which was held in

Caracas in early May.

Subject and Quevedo issued a statement to the

effect that Varona, Sánchez and Llerena did not represent any element

in Cuba.

This was a significant comment because (although it had been

known that the three had tacitly

opposed the revolutionary government's

leaders

made against the regime.

Subject denounced the (US?) Embassy "aviso

(unidentified) as irrefutable proof of US plans to commit eggression

All government-aligned elements in the folloving days

pointedly expressed their support for the FEU and the "thousand-times

glorious" Comandante Cubela (Subject), its president.

August 1960: Contacts among student circles in Ravana stated

that Subject was likely to be removed from the presidency

because he had shown reluctance to adhere to Communist orders.

that he might be charged (presumably as an excuse to discharge

him) with using 1,000 pesos given to the FEU for the election of Miss

Universe, for personal entertainment of friends in Varaderc, Cuba.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 14

14-00000

S-F.-C.-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME 'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SULTECT:

December 1960: The government-controlled newspaper El Murdo

announced that Subject had been named president of the newly

established Revolutionary Vigilante Comittee in the University of

Havana. Similar committees were to be estsblished throughout the

country, US officials called Subject Pidel CASTRO's "sharpshooter

1n the University of Havana,"

March 1901: Subject was reportedly arrested in an attempt to

flee Cuba but this was alleged to be a trap with Subject's

participation. It resulted in the arrest of several anti-Castroites.

August 1961: Subject told an intimate frierd prior to departure

for a tour of the USSR,

Europe and other countries, that he knew his

usefulness. to the regime was over and that if he remained in Cuba

le would be liquidated in the very near future. He reportedly said

he had had serjous arguments with Fidel Castro and Ernesto "Che"

GUEVARA de la Serna over his successor as president of the FEJ.

He

wanted to name his own successor and not accept their cheice of

Coumunist Ricardo ALARCON, secretary general of the FEU while

Subject was president.

March 1962: Fidel Castro reportedly called in Subject and

other aruy commanders (José Maria de la AGUILERA, Felipe GUERRA Matos,

Juar. NUIRY y Sanchez, Jorge SERGUERA Riveri and Pedro MIRET Prieto) to

tell then that the Coumunists were trying to take over the Governnent

of Cuba.

He asked the group to back him up and they agreed. Never-

theless, the source of this report stated that these leaders were

thought

to be planning to assassinate Fidel and Raúl Castro and "Che"

Guevara and take over the goverment for themselves. They thought

this plan would succeed because they were in charge of regular army

and militia troops. The source attributed the sabotage that was

then current in Favana to the work of this group.

April 1962: Fidel Castro sent, ore fnu CUBELA, possibly identical

with Subject, to the interior to criticize the local militia for their

attempts to win public support. He stayed at the home of one Eugenio

HERNANDEZ and publicly reprimanded

the chief of the Camajuani

militia. (See Unit 4, Attitude toward Regime.)

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 15

14-00000

B-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RÉGIME'S AT'IITUDE TOWARD SUBJECT:

June 1962: An official Spanish service reported that one Captain

Waldo MARTINEZ, (possibly Walso de jesu MARTINEZ Ordoqui), a Communist,

said that Subject was in charge of a tank unit composed of students

in the University of Havana.

This unit was located in the block

between Calles 23 and 25 and J and L.

(As early as January 1962 a

high-level Cuban Minister in exile in the United States had reported

that Subject was in charge of the University of Havana defenses to

make the university a jor center of resistance to any anti-govern-

ment attack.

Early March 1963: A Cuban Government, employee with good contacts

In military services reported on 25 April 1963 that Subject had been

recalled into active service from his post as a doctor in the

Municipal Children's Hospital,

The difficulties occurred

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 5

-B-L-R-E-1

TO FORKIGN DISSEI

L

---

## Page 16

14-00000

S-E-C-R-F.-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

FINANCIAL STATUS:

Subject's financial status is unknown as of December: 1953.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREICN DISSEM

---

## Page 17

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EDUCATIONAL, BACKGROUND:

Subject attended grammar school in the town of Placetas,

Las Villas Province, and high school in "La Progresiva" Presbyterian

Schorl in the City of Cardelas, Matanzas Province.

He studied

medicine at the University of Havana and graduated as a medical

doctor in 19to.

Subject took a course for rebel army officers in a school located

in Matanzas Province and graduated about Juiy 1963.

In late 1963 Subject was & student at the Alliance Fraugaise iu

Paris, France, presumably taking postgraduate medical studies as he

had previously ststed he would like to ic. He returned to Cubs in

Decenber 1963.

13 26

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 7

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREICN DISSEM

---

## Page 18

4-20000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MILITARI BACHCHULNE:

1955-57; At the time of the border incident between Costa Rican and

Nicaraguan troops Subject went to Costa Rica together vith

other members of the University Stadents Federation

(Federación Estudiantil Universitaria - FEJ) to defend

Costa Rica.

•When he returned fron Costa Rica be rejoiner

the fight against the Batista regime.

He and others then

founded the Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio

Revolucionario - DR) organization. Arter the failure of the

DR's attack against the Presidential Palace on 13 March 1957

mariy of the leaders

sought asylun in the United States.

Subject joined this

group of exiles and was appointed a

member of

the national executive of the DR.

1956:

Subject was invoived in the assassination of It. Col. Antonio

BLANCO Rico of batista's Military Intelligence (SIM) (see

Unit 3, Prior Political Beliefs).

1957-58: During December 1957-January 1958 Subject made trips to New

York City to buy arms and wir material for an expedition to

Cuba which the DR was preparing.

He participated in this

expedition which leit Miami on 1 February 1958 on a 55 foot

yacht. The expeditionaries consisted of 16 men and one

woman, headed by Faure CHOMON Mediavilla. They landed at

the Bay of Nuevitas, Camgüey Province, on 8 February and

then went by

truck to the Escambray Mountains in Las Villas

Province. Subject participated in the fighting in the

Escambray until the fall of the Batista regime. At first he

headed the "José Antonio Echeverria" Column of the DR and

later he was appointed as military chief of the DR.

When the

military forces of the 26th of July Movement beaded by

Ernesto

"Che" GUEVARA de la Serna arrived at the Escamuray,

Subject signed a formal military pact in the name of the DR

with the

26th of July Movement. Subject headed DR troops

in the capture of the city of Santa Clara, Las Villas

Province, and was wounded in a combat in that city on

30 December 1958. He was shot by a carbine bullet in the

right arm.). He was then taken to the town of Placetas, Las

Villas, for

medical attention and subsequently returned to

the front lines.

1958:

In December the DR and the 26th of July Movement in Las

Villas Provirce joined forces in the fight against Batista's

army. The DR refused to recognize "Che" Guevara as its

commander-in-chief and took military orders only from

subject.

Continued

CUBBLA Secades,

(lázaro) Rolando

Unit 8

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Fis

---

## Page 19

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MILITARY BACKGROUND: (Cont'd)

1959:

When BATISTA fled Cuba on 1 Jenuary 1959 the DR forces headed

to the Presidential Palace, 1 Refugio Street, Havana, and

Subject acted as military chief and on 5

January turned the palace orer to President Manuel URRUTIA

the initial discrepancies regarding the turning

over of the palace had been overcome.

1960:

1961:

1963!

On 25 March 1959 Subject was promoted from comandante in the

rebel army to comandante in tie revolutionary army and was

appointed military attaché to Spain by Fidel CASIRO. He left

on or about 27 March.

On 1 July the Dominican Foreign Minister advised the US

Embassy that Subject, then linder Secretary in the Cuban

Interior Ministry, was engaged in activation and leadership

In a Cuban effort to overthros the Government of the

Dominican Republic. He had reports on impending landings,

possibly for the Third of July, with some 200 Cubans and

Venezuelars, in three launches escorted by three ships of

the Cuban Navy. Two launches would fly American flags and

the third the Nicaraguan flag. Another anti-Trujillo source

reported the same information to the Embassy three days

earlier.

On 6 January Subject was hospitalized in the "Borges"

Pavilion of the "Calixto García" Huspital where he was

operated on for the bullet wound in his right arm.

In Janusry it was reported that Subject would go to Spain

in the near future ising a fictitious name and with tis

beard shaved off. He was to be chief of the action group

penetrating Spain frow Cuba.

A Cuban Government employce with good contacts in military

services reported on 25 April that Subject had been recalled

into active

service from his post as a doctor in the

Municipal Children's Hospital.

Continued

CUBRIA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 8

S-B-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 20

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MILITARY BACKCIOUND: (Cont'a)

In Paris in October 1963 a high-ranking official of the

Cuban Interior Miristry said Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, an

FEU official, and Subject, a former student leader

had

resigned from the army after difficulties with Raul CASTRO.

These difficulties occurred after they had completed a

senfor army training cource (around July 1963) and instead

of receiving the rank of comandante which they had held

during the revolution they were told by Raúl Castro that

they were being demoted to capitler. Both then resigned.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Roiando

Unit 8

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

.:..

---

## Page 21

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FOLLOWING WITHIN THE MILITARY:

During the anti-Batista fight in the Escaubray Mountains during

1957-58 Subject was the military chief of the Revolutionary

Directorate (DR). He resigned from the army in late 1963.

current following within the military, if any, is not a matter of

record.

CUBRIA Secades,

Lazaro Rolando

Unit 9

42606 Se

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 22

14-00000

S-F-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OTHER PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND:

Subject's professional background and militury bacisground are

somewhat difficult to clearly separate. Most of his activities

during the late 1950's and early 1960's vere involved with the

University Students Federation (l'ederación Estudiantil Universitaria

FEU) and the Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio Revolucionario -

DR).

1959: Subject was second in command of IR forces in the Escambray

Mountains.

In June 1959 an ex-DR leader was reported to be holding a

position in the Government of Cuba.

It had been reported that

on Subject's return from Spuin, where he was military attache

briefly, he was appointed Under Secretary in the Ministry of the

Interlor.

In September Subject resigned us Under Secretary to become a

candidate for president of the FEU (see Unit 5, Regime's

Attitude toward Subject). He was elected on 17 October 1959.

A rellable source stated that his resignation from the Under

Secretary's post was due in part to the fact that the DR was

unbappy over his acceptance of tbe position.

The public

reason given for his resignation--that he desired to run for

the presidency of the FEU--afforded a good excuse.

Shortly after his election Subject vas one of the principal

speakers at a mass demonstration beld to protest the incursion

of foreigh-based aircraft over Cuba.

Subject said that the

university students would be organized into student brigades

and would receive military instruction.

The brigades would he

called "Brigadas Estudiantiles Uni:ersitarias José Antonio

Echeverria. "

Subject imediately implemented the establishment

of these brigades.

In December a US resident of Cuba who received his information

from & Cuban youth leader reported that the swing of the FEU to

the left was confirmed by its decision at the end of Novenker

to become a full member of the Commist-run International

Union of Students

(IUS), although it also retained its

association with the Coordinating Secretariat of the National

Union of Students (COSEC), the free world's international

student organization.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 10

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 23

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OTHER PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: (Cont'd)

1960: In March Subject was successful in implementing the establish-

ment of new Disciplinary Tribunals to replace the old disciplin-

ary councils (see Unit 2, Current Political Beliefs). In April

Subject was given a vote of confidence by the executive body of

the FEU and was authorized to appoint students to serve on the

new tribunals.

The FEU leadership in the 13 university

faculties continued to voice its support for Subject and the

revolutionary government of CAStRO.

In July, according to a US State Department despatch, freedom

of academic expression was erded at the University of Havana

when Subject's radical students and allied professors "took

over" the university. The FEU directorate told the University

Council it no longer had any authority on the campus and must

step aside to make way for a new "Superior Governing Board."

The council refused.

On 14 July fighting broke out at the

Law School between moderates and pistol-packing representatives

of the FEU. Having Castro's regime behind them, the FEU group

quickly "restored order" and took over the law school, locking

classrooms and ousting professors. Subject, three other

students, and lour leftist professors (Hector GARCINI Guerra,

Enrique JIMENEZ López, Enrique HECHAVARRIA Vaillant and

Abelardo MORENO Bonilla) formed the Superior Council of the

University Government.

and the University of Havana became another instrument of the

Castro regime.

On 16 December the government-controlled El Mundo announced

that Subject had been named president of the newly established

Revolutionary Vigilante Committee in the University of Havana.

The US State Department called him Fidel Castro's "Sharpshooter

In the University of Havana. "

1961; Subject told an intimate friend prior to his departure for a

tour of various European, Eastern and Soviet Bloc countries

that he knew his usefulness

to the regime was over and that if

he remained in Cuba he would soon be liquidated. He said

he had had serious arguments with Fidel Castro and Ernesto "Che"

GUEVARA de la Serna over his successor as president of the FEU.

He wanted to name his own successor and not accept their choice

of Communist Ricardo ALARCON, then secretary general of the FEU.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 10

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 24

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OTHER PROPESSIONAL RACKGROUND: (Cont°d)

After serving his term as FEU president and as a member of the

government board of the university the

regime did not give him

any other official government appointment.

1962: An official Spanish service reported that one Captain Waldo

MARTINEZ (possibly Walso de Jesu MARTINEZ Ordoqui), a Coumunist,

said that Subject was in charge of a tank unit composed of

students in the University of Havana. This unit was located

in the block between Calles 23 and 25 and J and L. As early

aS

January 1962 a high-level Cuban Minister in exile in the

United States had reported that Subject was in charge of the

Havana University defenses as a major center of resistance to

any anti-government attack

1963; In early March Subject was reportedly recalled into active

service from his post as a doctor in the Municipal Children's

Hospital.

.".

Cuddli Secades,

Lazaro Rolando

Unit 10

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 25

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FAMILY BACKGROUND,

Subject's parents are Rolando CUBELA and Virginia Secades de

CUBELA; they have been divorced for some time.

Subject's father 1s

in the tailoring business.

He has recently (1961 or 1962) marrier

a girl many years his junior; Subject does not approve of this

marriage.

When Subject is in Havana he generally lives with his

mother whose address as of February 1963 was given as Calle 38,

#122, Esquina (corner of) Avenida Zoologico, Alturas de Vedado

(known also as Nuevo Vedado), Havana. Subject has a sister who as

of 1963 worked

in the offices of the secretaryship in the Presidential

Palace; her name is Caridad CUBELA Secades.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 11

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 26

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MARITAL STATUS AND CHILDREN:

Subject married Mirtha Nova Delgado around August 1959 and as

separated or divorced from her about three months later.

He reportedly

felt obligated to marry her, presumably because she became pregnant

prior to the marriage.

They have one child, believed to be a girl, who

was born in 1959 or 1960.

The reason for their divorce is not known,

although there were persistent rumors among Subject's friends that bis

wife had caught him in homosexual activities with another man.

said it was Ernesto

"Che" GUEVARA de la Serna and others said

Some

It was

Raul CASTRO Ruz (probably the latter, if the story is true).

Subject reportedly likes and admires his wife and is concerned

Por her welfare

and happiness, although he does not love her in the

husband-wife sense, according to a statement from Carlos TEPPDINO

Gonziez (now in the United States in exile), a longtime friend of

Subject.

During summer 1962 Subject met with Tepedino in Europe and

there stated that he could not go back to his wife even if he vanted

to because she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the Castro

regime.

He also mentioned her desire to get out of Cuba. Inis

coment was based on the supposition that Subject might be working

against the Castro regime in Cuba upon his return to that country.

Tededino expressed the belief that Subject did want to return to his

wire.

There has also been the comment that some of Subject's

"guilt" feelings come from the necessity of resolving the problem

of this separation.

Editcrial Note: Since he still likes and admires his wife, Subject

may be more cautious in any anti-regime action while she, their child,

and his mother remain in Cuba.

CURELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 12

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 27

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXIRA-MARITAL ACITVITIES and/ur ABERRATIONS:

Subject is either separated or divorced from his wife. He has

many times been reported to be a homosexual, but has also apparently

had various female friends.

In November 1955 Dr. Armando de CARDENAS y Aranguren, who

defected to the United States in August 1961, was picked up by

Batista's Military Intelligence (SIM) agents and interrogated with

regard

to subject and Juan Pedro CARBO Servia (now deceased), in

connection with the slaying of a SIM officer.

under pressure that he was a homosexual and that Subject was his

intimste friend.

In 1959 Subject and Raul CASTRO were reportedly surprised in

the latter's home in the Camp Colombia headquarters while making

obvious homosexual advances toward each other. There were persistent

rumors later that his divorce occurred because his wife caught him in.

homosexual activities with another man, either Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA

• de la Serna or Raúl Castro.

In October 1960 a report stated that

there were current rumors that he was probably a sexual degenerate.

Two months later

the statement was made. that it was common knowledge

that Subject had "sold out morally and politically" to Raul Castro.

He had shared quarters with Castro and there was much talk of homo-

sexual relationships.

According to Subject's friend Carlos TEPEDINO,

If Subject does have a bent toward homosexuallty, he is not solely

50-inclined.

According to Tepedino he presents & good appearance in a

masculine way. when dressed up and does quite well with women. A

January 1962 report noted that Subject was reliably reported by many

sources to be a pervert.

One of Subject's female friends is Loretta BERMEY, & Pan

American Airlines stevardess of French descent who is based in Miami

(a5 of 1962).

While Subject was in Europe in 1962 he wanted her to

come over there.

He appears to have known her for some time, since

his friend Tepedino reported that the stewardess had made some comment

tọ Subject concerning the latter's political frame of mind in 1961

which made Subject (or Tepedino) think that she was working for the

United States in some way.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 13

S-E-C-R-E-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 28

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXTRA-MARITAL ACTIVILLES and/or ABERRATIONS:

Subject is also friendly with a Cuban

dancer sumed Sonia

CALERO Sansana.

One report from Aruy Intelligence on 9 June 1961

called her Sonia Calero de CULELA, which would make her appear

Subject's wife, but this is presumed to be erroneour.

This report

added that she

was & Cuban Intelligence gent working in Havana.

(Another report identified her as the sister of a known G-2 agent,

Oscar CAIRO, who worked at one time in this job out of Montevideo,

Urugusy.) The report further stated that she was the mistress of

Ismant CIENFUZOS, then Cuban Minister of the Interior. Two addresses

for her were given in 1962, 1) Mazo 256, Ayestaran, Havana, and 2)

Calle 30, Esquina (corner of) Avenida 27. She is a

dancer who made

a trip to the UsaR with an artistic group in 1951 and another trip to

Prague in Jure 1962.

Another report stated that she was in the USSR

in 1960 and again in August 1962.

(Thus, she may have been in Pragu

in the summer or 1962 when Subject was there. She 1s a mulatto with

brown eyes, black hair (dyed red as of 1963), age 27, five feet six

Inches, and weighing 130 pounds.

She is called the

choreographer of

the Club Parisienne of the Hotel Nacionai in Havana and is also a

self-admitted Communist.

She is a miliciana and performs guard duty

at the CMQ offices and also does volunteer work. Subject is known

to have phoned her from Paris to tell her when he was returning to

Havana in mid-summer 1962. She is also known to be one of Fidel

CASTRO's mistresses®

CUBBIA Secades,

(Lizaro) Rolando

Unit 13

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 29

14-00000

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PERSONAL HABIT'S:

(e. Go, drink, food, narcotics, etc.)

Subject reportedly likes drinking, loves jokes, and 1s social,

amiable and friendly. During a visit to Mexico in 1961 he reportedly

drank heavily.

He is reported by many sources to be a homosexual but

15 also sald to like women (see Unit 13, Extra-Marital Activities and/

or Aberrations and Unit 23, Weaknesses),

-..

CUBELA: Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 14

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 30

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SPORTS, FOBRIES, SPECTAL EXTRi:

Subject is a sedical doctor.

Subject belonged to the shell-boat cres of the Vedado Tennis

Club, city of Havana, and distinguished himself in this sport.

1959 or 1960 he arted as coach for the Havana University crew.

CUBBIA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 15

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

"IST

---

## Page 31

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

• NO FOREICH DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA:

SOME of Subject's contacts inside Cuba:

SERGUERA Riveri, and Pedro MIRET Prieto on 15 March 1962 by

Fidel CASTRO and asked to support him against the Communists

allegedly trying to take over the Government of Cuba,

ALARCON, Ricardo: Vice president of the FEU when Subject vas its

president.

AL.VAREZ Diáz, José

ASTE (F) Yara, José:

2 Yar, on, Ray, say tray a to the so, the is tet 320,

AMELJEIRAS Delgado, Eligenio: One of the witnesses at Subject's

vedding.

ARTIAB, Marcelo: Boyhood friend well trusted by Subject.

BLARCA, Luis: In the USA in 1959; returned to Cuba.

Candidate against Subject in the 26th of July

Movement's bid for presidency of the FEU. Boitel was chosen

by the 26th of July students at the University.

BOrI Leon, Regino

CANO, Enrique:

Charge d'Affaires in Madrid when Subject was named

military attache to Spain, 1959.

CHOYON (aka Chaimont) y Mediavilla, Faure: One of the witnesses at

Subject's. wedding in 1959. Now (1963) Cuban Ambassador to Moscow.

CASTRO Ruz, Fidel:

CASIRO Ruz, Raúl: At Subject's wedding in 1959 as a witness.

CASTRIIS Valdes, Antonio:

Now (1963) reportedly important official

in G-2 Security Department.

• Continued

CURELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 32

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA: (Cont'a)

DIAZ-ARGUELLES y Carcia, Raul Jaine: One of the DR leaders vith

Subject in the Escambray.

DIAZ Aztarain, Rolando: Now Chief of the Cuban Navy (1963).

DORTICOS Torrado, Osvaldo:. President of Cuba (1903).

ESCALANTE Dallunde, Cesar: Traveled to Brazil with Subject in 1560.

ESCALONA Martinez, Sergio: Traveled with Subject to Brazil and Mexico

in 1960.

FERNANDEZ y Cossio, José: In the Sierra del Escambray fighting with

Subject; member of the Dr.

FIGUEROA, Luis: Professor at the University of Havana in 1960.

assassitate It.

Department of Military Intelligence. Accusation not necessarily

true.

GUERRA Matos, Felipe: See de la Aguilera, above.

GUT'IERREZ, Menoyo, Eloy Cubela: Was reported to be in contact with

him in May 1962.

GARCINI Guerra, Hector: One of the 4 leftist professors on the

Superior Governing Board of the University of Havana when the

4 students (Subject, Quevedo, Venegas and Alarcon) took

control.

BART Davalos, Armando: Minister of Education in Cuba since 1959.

EECRAVARRIS Vaillant, Enrique: See Garcini above.

INCLAN y Costa, Dr. Clemente:

"Rector Magnifico" - a title rarely

Rector of the University of Havana when Subject became

FEU President in 1959.

JIMENEZ Lopez, Enrique: See Garcini, above.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Roiando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 33

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORFIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA: (Cont'd)

MACHIN Deveche, Gustavo "Tavo"; One of the witnesses at Subject's

In the DR with Subject In the Escambray•

to be Communist, since rellable source has reported arguing

with Machin against Communist. Machin's father, a doctor 1s

definitely anti-Communist,

MARINELLO Vidsurreta, Juan: Veteran Communist. Became Rector of the

University of lavara in 1962. Previously long-time leader of the

Popuiar Socialist Party, the Coumunist Party of Cuba,

SARRERO Y Artiles

Uru at en 1900. Subree el the cole of the Devartent

of International

Relations in the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

HIRET Prieto, Pedro

MORENO Bontlla, Abelardo; See Garcinl, Jinérez, and Hechavarria,

above.

NUIRY y Sanchez, Juan: Recalled to active service and appointe

Chief of the Mayari Coumand In Oriente Province. Attended

Communist indoctrination School in Jenuary 1962.

NARANJO y Morales, José Albertos One of the witnesses at Subject's

PORTELA, Dr. Alfredo: One of the witnesses at Subject's wedding.

PUENTE Blanco, jose: Subject replaced Puerte as president of the

FEU in 1959.

PUENTE, Jorge (Panamanian): Doing Comnunist training for CASIRO in

Venezuela.

QUEVEDO Valdivia, Angel:

secretary general of the FEU leadershir

when Subject was president of the FEU.

RAMOS; Francisco: Traveled to Brazil with Subject in 1960. Not

known whether this is the Francisco Ramos,

a commercial

counselor, who was in the Dominican Repablic in 1961.

If sc,

name may be Francisco Ramos Rojas.

There is also a Majur

Ramos Peguero, fnu.

Continued

CUBELA: Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 34

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA: (Cont'a)

REBELLON (ake REVELION) Alorso, José: Student leader, 1960.

Juventud Comunista®

RODRIGUEZ, Rodriguez, Carlos Rafael: One of Subject's pet "dislikes";

solid Communist.

RODKIEVEL, Fructuoso:

Widow of this man was with Subject in Madrid

on

2 April 1959 during press conference at the buban Embassy

after Subject arrived to become military attache. Relation, 11

any, to Cuban Embassy or to Subject unknown.

SANCHEZ Bernal, Fernando: Subject is called a former friend of

Sanchez.

SANCHEZ Perales, Dr. Istdro: A witness at Subject's wedding.

SANTIAGO Garcia, Antonio: Served in US Aruy during World War II.

DR column

leader in Escambray,

SERCUERA Rivert, Jorge: See de la Aguilera, first page.

SOTO Figueredo, Luis: Deputy secretary in the FEU when Subject was

President,

VASQUEZ, Blanco, Juan: Cuban Counsul, NYC, and reported G-2 whor

Subject contacted after a trip to Europe in August 1960.

TENEGAS Valdespino, Jose: Vive president of the FEU when Subject

as its president.

Other Cubans probably known to Subject - they all attended the

Communist-sponsored Latin American Peace Conference in Mexico City

5-8 March 1961:

ENTRALCO y Vallina, Prof. Ellas Jose

GUILLEN Batista, Nicolas: Cuban Communist poot.

SANTAMARIA, Haydee: This is the wife of Armando Hart Davalos,

Cuban Minister of Education under Castro.

Continued

CURELA: Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 35

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUNTACIS IN CUBA: (Cont'a)

SOTO, Jesus

(EDFLEGIA?), JOrge (DI.)

DE LA TORRE y Calejas, Salvador Luis: Professor, writer, natural

sciences, etc., and at this date president of Las Villas

University.

RAVELO, FernarJo

ARAGONES y Navarro, Emilio

RODRIGUEZ Rodríguez, Carlos Rafael

CASTELLO, Humberto

CASTELIANOS García, Baudillo

CONZALEZ, Augusto

CANCINI, DI.

ALVAREZ Rios, Baldermo

FRANQUI, Carlos

KU-CHI-IAN, Mario:

Chinese-Cuban Cornunist and photographer;

reported to

be working for the United States; also reported

to be working for CASTRO; latter more likely. Name

frequently: spelled Kuchilan.

PEREZ Rodriguez, Joaquin: In May 1960, Joaquín Pérez Rodríguez, who

vas vice-president of the Association of Agricultural Students

of the University of Havana was attacked by Comandante Ramón

subject at this meeting. Perez was very popular,

however,

and his

frienas succeeded in preventing his expulsion

from the University.

He was severely beaten by FEU forces

under Subject's presidency.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 36

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

FO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA: (Cont *a)

GUIN, Ramon: See above; in the DR during the fighting against

Batista.

MURCIONDO, Jose Luis: Cuban agent at the Cuban E:bassy in

Montevideo in June 1960.

Subject met Murgiondo while he,

Subject, was on a goodwill mission there. Murgiondo's current

whereabouts are not a matter of record,

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

......

---

## Page 37

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS GUTSIDE CUBA:

Dominican Republic:

ERICKSON, Tomás Parmento: Contact with Subject in September

1961. (Erickson

is possibly a Cuban).

RAMOS Rojas, Francisco: Ramos is possibly a Cuban (see Unit

16, Contacts in Cuba).

Mexico:

Pebruary 1961

de LEON García, Maximo: Former member of the Communist Party of

Mexico.a Nuevo Leon University student who, with the others

listed below, traveled to Mexico City to see Subject during

CADENA Cadena, Jose Angel: Member of the PCM - Communist Party

of Mexico at Nuevo Leon University.

GONZATEZ Nuñez, Pedro: Nuevo Leon University Student, Mexico.

GARZA, Jesus Mario:

President of the Alumni Association of

Preparatory School #1, University of Nuevo Leon, Mexico.

RAMOS Quintanilla, Oscar, Nuevo Leon School of Medicine, Mexico.

Uruguay:

In May 1960, on a trip (possibly accoupanying, possibly on a

good will mission

along) with President DORTICOS and the Cuban

Ambassador to Montevideo (Mario GARCIA Inchaustegui), Subject met a

group of student leaders who, in the name of the Movimiento

Latinoamericano-26, had

repudiated President EISENHOWER's March 1960

visit to Uruguay; some of the individuals listed below were members

of the Federation of Uruguayan University Students (FEUU), and may

or may not have been involved in the repudiation of Eisenhower, but

all appear to be pro-Communist or Communist:

ERPANDONEA Fernández, Alfredo Mario: • FEUU leader - active Communist.

GONZALEZ, Raquel: FELU leader, and Communist leader among the

university students.

Continued

CUBSLA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 17

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 38

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA: (Cont'd)

BLANCO, Jure: Active Cormunist leader.

KOVLENKO, Mihail:

Communist with an active Interest in the FEU,.

although not a student.

MARTINEZ, Igor, Conmunist student in the University Law School;

recently (1960) visited

Cuba.

PASTORINO Raúl: Pro-Coumunist interested in student and labor

matters.

Editorial Note: Subject arrived in Montevideo from a goodwill mission

in Chile, aid may have been on the same goodwill mission to meet

students and labor leaders in Uruguay, or may have arrived with

Dortions' grcup. There are conflicting reports on his arrival, but

he was there at this meeting, it is believed.

Is: early june 1960, Subject attended a meeting in Montevideo at

which Blanco (see above)

Javier LAROCDA (a frequent traveler to

Moscow), and a Cuban Jose Luis MURGIONDE (agent of the Cuban Embassy

in Montevideo) were present. Subject and Levi MARRERO y Artiles,

chief of the Department of International Organizations in the Ministry

of Foreign Relations of Cuba, Issued invitations for the Latin

American Youth Congress and initiated a campaign to invite students

to participate in the military course orgarized for Latin American

students.

Subject said that Soviet and Chinese instructors would

teach guerrilla warfare methods.

Br8z11:

GUANAIS, Oliveiros: President of the Union of Brazilian students.

Traveled with Subject on trip thru Brazil in December 1960.

Chile:

Chilean Students who supposedly signed a joint declaration

with Cuban students in July 1960..

CAVADA, Octavio: Chilean Cristian Democratic leader.

FERNANDEZ, Patricio: President of

the Federation of Chilean Students.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 17

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 39

14-00000

- LOSERL-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

CONTACIS OUTSIDE CUBA: (Cont'a)

MUNITA, Fernando:

Catholic University of Santiago, Chile. (On 5 July

1960, El Diario Ilustrado, Chilean daily stated that Munita and

Alejandro FOXIBY denied signing this manifesto.

UPSIC, student organization.

Daslav (?): President of the Technical University of Santiago.

PAVEZ, Horacio:

President of the Technical University of Valparaiso

student organization.

SANEUEZt.,

Eernarlino: President of Catholic University student organi :

zation.

MARTINEZ, Osvaldo:

Universily of Valparaiso.

Nicaragua:

OBRECON Aguirre, Genaro: Nicaraguan pro-Comunist who planned to see

Subject in April 1960 unile on a trip to Havana.

Obregon reportedly

vas to ask Subject for aid for Nicaraguan student revolutionan

activities.

SALINAS, Maximo: Visited Cuba, and returned to Nicaragua with gifts froi

Subject to one Joaquin SOLIS, leader of a Nicaraguan studen

over no to receiver-une la ders from Communist leaders 1n

SOLIS, Joaquín: See note on Salinas, just above.

ecuador, Polivia, Venezuela (representatives from these countries at a

student's Congress.

spons?red "by COSEC, and held in Klosters,

witzerland in 1960).

Ecuador:

ORDONE. Pulley, David

Bolivia:

ZAMORA, Oscar: Leader of the Red Bloc in Bolivia. Attended the IUS

Congress in Peking in 1959. Member of the Partido Obrero Boliviano.

Elected by the Bolivian University Students to attend COSEC corgress.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 17

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 40

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA:

Venezuela:

ALVAREZ Ibarra, Fedro Francisco: IUS (Communist-sponsored sector

of the World Federation of Denocratic Youth, which is also

Cormunist) leader in Venezuela who attended this COSEC

meeting.

United Ststes:

CARDENAS y Aranguren, Armando de:

Cuban patroiogist in the United

States; reportedly Subject's "boy friend."

CUBALA, Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolardo

Unit 17

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 41

14-00000

S-E-E-R-E-T

NO POREIGN DISSUM

TRAVEL:

1957: Alter the failure or the Revolutionary Directorate (DR) attack

against the Presidential Palace on 13 Murch many leaders of the

DR sought asylum In the United States, Including Subject. He

made various trips from Miami to New York City to buy ares and

war material for an

expedition to Cuba being prepared by the DR.

In New York he lived at the home of Ioldro HERNANDEZ, a professor

at the Medical School of the University of Ravana.

1959: In March Subject went to Spain as military attaché; he retained

in this post only about two months.

1960: According, to a January report Subject hud recently returned

from visiting Coumunist China.

1960: 3utject was in Montevideo, Uruguay, temporarily on a goodwill

mission and

was active among pro-Communist student and labor

groups while there. There are conflicting reports on his

arrival date so he may or may not have been a member of the

group surrounding Cuban President Osvaldo DORTICOS Torrado

shen hu visited Uruguay on 30 May. Another report indicated

that Subject did not arrive in Uruguay until 3 June, coming in

unexpectedly from Chile, ss a guest of the pro-Communist

Federation of Uruguayan

Students (FEUJ). He stayed four days,

held & press conference at FEUU headquarters, spoke at the

University of Montevideo, and privately wet leaders of the

FEUJ and the Coumunist-dominated Uruguayan labor confederation.

There was no advance publicity about his arrival; even the

PlU appeared surprised.

One of his probable topics of

discussion with labor and student leaders was the forthconing

Latin American Youth Congress scheduled for Havgne in July 1950.

1960. Subject was to leave on 14 August to take part in the Ninth

International Students' Conference in Switzerland. Upon his

return from this conference he spent several days in New York

• City where he was in contact with José VASQUEZ, Blanco,

consular attache and reported Cuban G-2 agent. He was

apparently with the Cuban delegation to the United Nations for

at least part of his stay in the United States.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 18

S-E-C-B-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2752

---

## Page 42

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TRAVEL: (Cont'd)

1960: With Sergio ESCALONA Martínez, head of the newly formed Cuban

Institute for Friendship with Peoples, Subject left for Brazil

to represent Pidel CASTRO at graduation exercises for law

students fron the University of Goainia and possibly also at

são Paulo University•

After five days in Brazil they were to

go to Mexico City.

They traveled on diplomatic passports.

Subject, was scheduled to attend ceremonies in Mexico at the

University of Mexico but missed his plane connections from

Brazil and instead on 23 December represented Castro as

sponsor of the graduation class of the National Agricultural

School at Chapingo and conferred with faculty members of the

Science and Politics Department at that school.

1960: Subject transited Panama

en route from Curaçao to Mexico or

December.

He had been in Curaçao en route fron Port oi

Spain.

1961: Subject was one of the 23 Cuban delegates to the Latin

American Conference on National Sovereignty, Economic

Independence and Peace beld in Mexico City.

1961; In August he left on a tour of the USSR, Soviet Bloc countries,

India, Japan, Italy, Spain and France.

He was invited as a

guest of student organs in these countries. He was to attend

a cultural festival in Paris ard proceed to the Bloc countries.

On 24 August he spoke at a press conference in Prague. On 27

August he spoke at the headquarters of the International Union

of Students on the liquidation of illiteracy and on the social

status of students in Cuba. On 24 September he and an uniden-

Subject returned

from bis trip in October 1961, according to the Cuban newspaper

, 1962: In August Subject was reportedly a "special delegate" to the

Helsinki World Youth Festival by Fidel Castro's permission.

The story which Subject told Castro was that he was fatigued and

ill and needed a rest. Thus he got a chance to travel and to

meet his friend Carlos TEPRDINO, who is now in exile in the

United States. Subject stayed at the Franklin Hotel in Paris

with Tepedino and then moved to the Casa Cuba. He planned to

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro Rolando

Unit 18

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 43

14-00000

S-E-L-R-E-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

TRAVEL:

spend about one week in Prance,

including a trip to the Riviera,

and then to to prague.

Subject's wife allegedly told iriends he

did not intond to return from Helsinks; however, he did return.

1963

As of late 1963 Subject was studying at the alliance

Frangaloe in Paris, Prance.

He returned to Cuva in December.

-. seen.

CUBRIA Secades,

(Lizaro) Rolando

Ualt 18

S-E-C-R-S-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

..?"

---

## Page 44

14-00000

S-E-C-R-I-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS,

In 1955 Subject, along with Jose Antonio ECHEVERRIA Bianchi,

Fructuoso RODRIGUEZ, Juan Pedro CARBO Servia, Eduardo GARCIA

Lavandero and Faure CHOMON y Mediavilla, founded the Revolutionary

Directorate (Directoric Revolucionario - Un In 1950 he headed the

"José Antonio Echererria

column of the Dr in the Escambray Mountains

and later he was appointed military chief of the DR. In 1959 he was

recognized as one of the DR's top leaders.

On 17 Octuber 1959, Subject was elected president of the

University Students Federation (Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria -

FEU) • He served for something under a year as FEU president..

The .

FEU was affiliated with both the International Union of Students, part

of the Coumunist-controlled World Federation of Democratic Youth,

and with the Coordinating Secretariat of the Naticnal Union of

Students (COSEC), the free-world interrational students' organization.

He has attended

various meetings of both of these international groups,

particularly of the former.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unft 19

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 45

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS:

(Prejudices, disabilities, racial considerations, etc.)

In September 1959 Subject reportedly told intimates that he was

so disgusted: with the CASIRO regime that if he, Subject, did not get

out of Cuba soon he would kill Castro himself.

In February 1961 there was an unconfirmed report that Subject

had made overtures to various Embassies for asylum.

In August he said

he knew his usefulness to the regime was over

and if he remained in

Cuba he would soon be liquidated. He said he was too involved with

the actions of the Government of Cuba

to become a defector but hoped

to remin in France at the completion

of his tour of the Soviet Bloc

and other countries to take postgraduate medical work.

In February

1902 it was reported that even though he had been forced to resign as

president of the University Students Federation (FEU) in favor of a

Cosmunist he seemed to have retained his position as a student leader

and carried more weight by far than his successor, Ricardo ALARCON.

He was consulted not only by student leaders but by university students

and government officials.

and other arty comanders were called in by

Fidel Castro Por support against a Communist takeover of the gover.1-

ment.

They agreed to back Castro but according to source they were

really thought to be planning to assassinate Castro and his brother,

and take over the

government themselves.

(See Unit 4, Attitude toward the Regime.)

Later in 1962 Subject reportedly told his friend Carlos

TEPEDINO, now an exile in the United States, that he could not

return to his wife if he wanted to because of her outspokenness

against the regime and her desire to leave Cuba.

on the supposition that he might be working against the Castro

regime in Cuba upon his return.

: /

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 20

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSOM

---

## Page 46

14-00000

S-E•C-R-E•T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MOLIVATION:

Subject is obvioudly a contradictory and controversial figure.

He 1s a romintic idealist, but as a practical politician he is naive.

He appears to require a nychological impetus, preferably in the form

of a strong and trusted purson who can keep him sufficiently

psychologically motivatod

At present, he appears determined to carry

out his plans. He taken pride in his reputation for bravery, but is

personally sensitive regarding the acts which have built up that

reputetion, e fo, his sonuitivity to the use of the word assassin

numerous reterences to lilm made by Cubans and others.

An evalustion of subject should be based on his personality,

als reputation as a malerindo (a brash, spoiled, outspoken person),

and his aversion to bow lu the will of higher authorities, including

the CASTROS and Erresto "Che" GUEVARA, Under the surface, however,

he appears to be & sensitive man showing many indications

of honesty,

patriotism, decency, and uncelfishness.

incident of his engagemint to his present wife, which was announced

In 1959.

He felt obligatud to marry her, and did so in August of that

year, possibly because shu became pregnant. Altnough separated from

her l'or some time, he has more than once expressed his liking and

admiration for her, and his concern for ber welfare and happiness.

She is outspokenly

anti-rogine ans wants to leave Cuba. Although it

may seem normal that he murry her under the circumstances, there are

many Cubans who would not have done so.

While Subject is mercurial in temperament, it has been proven

that anything he undertakos he performs with vigor and dedication,

and ususlly accomplishes his mission. An example of this fact is

his participation in the ussassination in 1956 of Lieutenant Colonel

Antonio BLANCO Rico, of Butista's Military Intelligence (SIM). He

defended that act at a proos conference in Madrid (where he had been

sent as Castro's military uttache) on 2 April 1959 by describing

Batista as a dictator, assussin, and despoiler of the riches of Cuba

who had left the revolutionary government the legacy of a Cuban

national debt of one billion dollars.

There is no indication that Subject has demanded anything

material for himself, either from the Castro regime or from the US

Government, with the

possible exception of technical assistance from

the latter. Nor did he demand a high position when Castro took over,

even though his fighting, leadership and courage in the Escambray

contributed to the revolutionary victory and entitled him to some

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro)Rolando

Unit 21

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 47

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MOTIVATION:

major consideration. Rather, Subject's qualities of modesty,

naÏvete

and honesty and bis assets as a soldier were used by Fidel CASTRO and

"Che" GUEVARA as tools to persuade him to run for the presidency of the

FEU in order to win control over the anti-revolutionary, • apolitical

and Roman Catholic groups predoninant. at the University of Havana.

(subject's own study of medicine at that institution had made him well

aware of the conditions existing there and he keenly felt the need for

revolutionary reforms.

It, is, of course,

difficult to reconcile the brutality of some

or Subject's actions

as FEU president, particularly sirce he

indicated his dissatisfaction with the Castro regime within three

months i. Its implementation. he treated the entire student and

faculty body as enemies of the revolution, and it seemed apparent that

he was, after all, simply utilized as a Castro tool.

With regard to his political naivete, it appears that Subject,

like many others, believed what he heard in the inner circles, in

which he was an important Directorio Revolucionario (DR) leader.

He fought in the Escambray as he had fought for José FIGURES Ferrer,

President of Costa Rica

when that country was invaded in 1955.

An

Idealist, he thought certain individuals were actually revolutionary

leaders who aimed to help the poor.

Subject was disillusioned much

sooner than some, to the extent that, some three months after the

Castros

assumed power, he told an intimate friend that he was so

disgusted with Castro that if be (Subject) did not get out of the

country soon, he would kill Castro. Castro, however, knowing that

the leaders of the DR were in essence either Communist or pro-Communist,

had already decided to separate tem; and he began by sending Subject

to Madrid as Cuban military attaché.

The reasons behind Subject's

acceptance of the post are unclear, unless he simply wished to leave

Cuba in order to avoid killing Castro.

In any case, he told a good

friend that he only planned to stay in Spain about a month and then

return to complete his medical studies in Havans. As the report

Indicated, Subject's plan to return was inconsistent with his reperted

dissatisfaction with Castro.

The newspaper Diario El Nacional reported

that Subject's departure was due to health, rather than political

reasons.

(However,

it may be that subject was flattered by the appoint-

ment, a good one for a man of his age.) Subject returned shortly,

nevertheless, and as appointed Deputy Secretary of the Interior,

remaining in that post until he resigned to present his candidacy for

the presidency of the FEU. The election took place on 17 October 1959.

CUBEIA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 21

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 48

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

STRENGTHS:

Subject takes personal pride in his reputation for bravery.

He has a reputation for being a malcriado (brash, spoiled, outspoken)

and for not boring to the will of higher authorities.

crust, however, he is & sensitive man showing many indications of

bonesty, patriotism and decency.

He may at this time be anti-Communist and anti-Castro but 1t

Is difficult to draw any conclusion frow the conflicting material

available concerning his views.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 22

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 49

4-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREICN DISSEM

WEAKNESSES:

Subject is personally sensitive with regard to the acts wnich

have built up his reputation.

He is particularly sensitive to the

use of the word assassin in numerous references to him by Cubans and

others.

Subject has often been reported to be a pervert, a sexual

degenerate, ard a homosexual.

Specific instances of alleged homo-

sexual activities are recorded in Unit 13, Extra-Marital Activities

and/or Aberrations.

In 1959 & Guatemalan youth leader who spoke to Subject at some

length after the latter's return fror. Communist China reportedly said

that Subject was not too intelligent and vas primarily a soldier in

attitude

and outlook.

In November 1960 an unidentified source called Subject one of

many "suall time" student leaders who made their living by extortion

and blackmail.

The principal victins were homosexuals who were

prominent in social, professional and business positions.

This

report called him an individual without principles or scruples, greedy,

ambitious, and one who would betray the regime without qualms sbould

it suit his own interests. Among his victims allegedly were Miguel

Angel QUEVEDO y Lastra, former editor of the weekly magazine Bohenia

(now in exile in Venezula and formerly working for the United States

editing Bohemia Libre) and one Dr. CARDENAS, chief surgeon of the

university hospital.

However, Quevedo is and was openly known to be

a homosexual and Dr. Cardenas appears to be Dr. Armando de Carderas

Aranguren, a pathologist who admitted homosexual relations with

Subject during an interrogatiou by Batista's military intelligence

after the killing of Lt. Col. Atonic BLANCO Rico.

There is so dosbt,

however, that Cardenas still considered himself a friend to Subject

and as late

as 1961 was trying to help get, Subject out of Cuba; this

does not seem to be a likely action for someone who had been black-

mailed for years by Subject.

According to one source Subject contemplated suicide in 1961.

He was said to completely distrust security in any Miami contact

with Cubans and the Cuban community.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolardo

Unit 23

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 50

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORKIGN DISSEM

WeAKNESSES: (ront dl

While in Mexico In 1961 Subject reportedly was drinking

heavily.

The ressons for dismissing him as president of the FiJ

In 1960 were reportedly drink and women.

In January 1962 an emirent physician who arrived from Cuba as

told a US agency that Subject had probably changed his

mind about defecting because he was afraid that he would be incarcerated

In an immigration detention camp.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 23

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 51

14-00000

S-E-C-R-B-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FIFLD ESTIMATES

The user should use this space for overall corments or

estimates having first perused the various Units as received from

Headquarters and added pertinent comment or special knowledge under

the appropriate Unit.

CUBELA Secades,

(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 24

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 52

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISCEM

OFERATIONAL LEADS:

CUBALA Secades,

(Lázaro) Rolando

Unit 25

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FORBIGN DISSEM

---

