# 104-10256-10384

## Page 1

104-10256-10384

FROM

SUBJECT

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Toon

COMGENITAL

17 May 1973

3 • dicea

: OSD06 (Co-Sherupski) (Er. Bodin) and (w.B. Gilbert)

: Tour of Duty Report 1700-0100

TIPS

1. 1700 - Entered on duty. Reviewed previous tour reports and current OSDO

instructions.

2. 1725

Carl Veitenthal

CCS/DO, advised the cover phones have been switch-

ed to the OSDO. Mc. Veitenthal can be reached at 370-4066. WEG

3. 1730 - Issued Pageboy 153 to Russ Wurten, ESD/DO. WIG

4. 1755 - Received a call through the Agency Operator from listed nuisance

Paul W. Jones. Nothing of interest discussed. Call logged. J'B

5: 1800 - Mr. Fox requested a message be passed to M. Joyce Nesmith), ICS, in

training at Isolation. Contacted Isol./Operator, who will hanale.CEs •

6. 1803 - Received a call from listed nuisance Theodore Soucie. Nothing of

Agency interest discussed. Call logged. WEG

7. 1820 - FPO Fletcher, Ames Building, reported finding safe # D-2177 open

in room 1012, x 2663. Officer Fletcher was instructed to secure

the safe pending arrival of an SDO. WEG

8. 1830 - E. Fontana, PER, requested and received the home phone number of

Charles Moss,) DCI Staff. CES

9. 1915 - FPO Higgs,

Headquarters, reported finding safe # D-4228 open in

room 3 D 30, x 7266. SDO responded to investigate. See related

Violation Report for details. CES

10. 1945 - William McGrew, OS, requested and received the home phone number

of Joseph King, OS. CES

11. 1945 - The Agency Operator transfered a call from one George Beal, Minor-

Ity Counsel Statt, of Senator Gurney, U.S. Congress, (225-9526)

requesting copies

of NSCID-5 and the Agency's Security Oath. Mr.

Beal stated that the above documents were needed this evening in

reference to Senate Judiciary Conmittee Hearings. Joseph O'Neill,

OIC, was contacted via the DCI/sS and he agreed to handle. JFB

12. 1948 - FPO Graham, Headquarters, reported finding an unsecured classified

trash container in room 2 G 00, * 5380. SDO responded to investigate.

See related Violation Report for details. CES

CONFIDENTAL

ng:

---

