# 104-10179-10151

## Page 1

104-10179-10151

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURNTO C

Background Use

only

Do Not Reproduce

WILL CHECK CLASSI

ON TOP AND BOI

OM

SEChET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

/ 57:1/CA

ITAt

CC 1908

ARol

3.

so note just

in have now,

FUK.:*73

Laid 03

reples. you

how 20 410

210113:;

TUNES

undocline

- portion)

Call Ray.

Eiur).03

ACTOH

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCI

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

Remarke John

03

Here,

at long last 218/winterrowdaripom

on.his.ta.ka.sithihay.e..al

sa letter

i fron hunds.

As I mentioned earlieri

be in tom next week (13 16 ug) answil

question him no to tre suntus aaliythles

sort. c.thire.

Do you have a precisics. (other

then the Draper circulation plan

it RaPon, 2 p.0117 7

5/1d

---

## Page 2

14-00000

VI8I7 HITE HAHJIL RAY AID CARLOS DIACO IN SUEZTO RICO

DURIAC THY FIRST NEX OF JUIT, 1ÃSS

Tho pespaio of ible rials vas to Alacase tha poRstBility

of a fubaa daloraation bulletla la l1n0 vita ebo respastion sede

DOe MaRKo CRIlles by Javier PaSOR, ThIe tOO AlRO eR oppOrtUaSty

to discuss other activities upon uhich on night pacaibly collaborato.

I spoka with Ray 80r ino or tares hours folloning a dey loca

d100468109 81th Diago, Mbea I described for Rey tha projost of tha

Cuban Laforustion bullatia as Diago and I concalvod of 18, do tas

enthusdastlo. It should be rocellad that I bed somed asey fren

PazO's ORTIlEs conception of the bulletia end bed cosa to tha

concluston that such a bulletia voald da sont usafal end talgóe

11 1E vera beded on saterial coales fron Inalde Caba. In ashor

sordo, no nould sot ulah saraly to duplicate bulletine such 09 dis

bulletia I 18 diecussins la our on 12le5In JAleTAISATS DAlES 10

basod on usteriala proparad entirely tasido spala,. Both Dlago ead

Roy decaprad enchustastically tale coscoption ol sue ballorla dad

Doth assured ne that a regular flou al lafornestos fren dunida cab

could do maintalaad, Dago appereas ly bai à four sources

of

def

no con send bin satertal tbronza diplomato trevolley one ol

Ray has a such nore extend ito servark tbrough watch do prost

a regular 81o0 0l Informatioa, Mas da agread on fbe péture

•at she

Dollars.

3Lom

the sant quastion vas that as sponsorable.?.

1onl that the Congress should be dracely lovolved la sica an etiare.

Tha too poosibilities ve diacuared mere tha group eronad the nagailor

IDLITICA lA VOROsHaLA and thA sebool da COstA Rice valça eralDo

0F177

lil 338

---

## Page 3

14-00000

desorella pallelcal cadres, dey vas pusy posselve.

st tho

acbool end thought thas de vould do a very dood sponsor. De

apole eatbastastically about the mark being dons there and loit

that this sould be the vost sultablo plece for tha preparation os

the balletsa, I cold die ches us sould sons ibead along rbaso

Inco end add 1l no could interest tbe school In thile proposle 109.

beado, The projece for tDo bulletla la sou lo ebo heade al

Parter Humos at the Costa Rican achool, I have cent bla e datallad

outlies of bon se concolve of the bulletia, and hava asked bies to

dAGUEs 1E VICH BARSA PlOTOS dUrIAG BAOLA FlOrER'S StAy at the

school la July, Idaelly, I Mould thiak that dontono fron the school

mould vant to sace ulth Carlos Dlago and festo Maso Mbo 10..

presantly la loservels, These too young sen mould bo the soot

Ilkoly peopla to produce the kind of ballotta descriled abore, 18

might furthermore ho uselul to sost vith lay alaca da vould be.

•producing nast of tha laforsation used 1a tha bullet too.

at Loast

sa the beglandas. Tbe question of there the bulletsa ebould ba

Located was lose open. But Hecks anders

dE 1a leadeO CIty Under the diractoR of Vlator Alba miebe be •

unoful way of proceedias.. I coatime to feal that 1s Mould beat

be located at the achool itsell there the production of such

bulletie could be lieted in 80 the reguler curriculus ol the eclood.

Bassa flares u1l1 be discuestos the profost la Collu Ries ond Mill

then pass by fuerto alco la order to discurs. the settel

with 2og, sy early septeaber, be abould kaon where to ar

on cale

Uses resard to a isara soneral dlecue0100 vich Rai

could like to potat out a labor of the tbingo which de dise load

80 ma.

Sa cho 11888 place, be ves very inera la bie Prales al

ÜFPA-

66338

---

## Page 4

14-00000

co...

star 98y

16335

ous sesulado da Prensa unica ha llade nety asatul, furtharusto, bo

offered ble help la the diatribution of tha Dreper book esd ol

CUADERSOS 1o CUbA, FOS ENLa purpoRe, ba duglasted chel va cend

copias o1 CUADERNOS, a handrod por soath, rasularly to sesello

Cloneros uDo 11r00 at 347 Marth BasE 36th SErODE, Mloal, Platde

CleeTOs vould act undei the lastrucelone of Ray es tha dfatributor

Turca? 1a Gaba 2o8 CUADEOß aod ofbar aater lala ubich no vorld produces.

"Hay aldo urgad that no do uberevas podoiblo la Eba Docitaicen

Republic, De spoke of the pany sonda af the incallectualo chara,

and of the rola unich the Congress could play. La bos agroad to

sand foruaId a llAt Of DEses dal sáraseas ol propla ubo aboria be

rocalving our materiala end vich unos va should ba la contect.

With rogerd to hls ona plans, he spote of blo tetention

LO BERTI a 16-pago nosspapor la the Deas futuro, Parthersore, ha

' 1o maklag activa elforta to atars up a rodie atablos. He basco".

bia activitías on the ballet chas en uprising la Cuba la posaíblo

1f en alteraatin la offerad to Fidel on tha ase noso, and tho Mient

axtle group da tho ochar, My general lopraRaion of hay Uds è sood

ora. Ha atruck na an a soderara, latallisant seo, @littlo sivas

to byacerla end alogas-songering. Hãe best quality seesa co be

sroet loedarebip potential, al loest la ceras of sena appeati fe

did noen to de a practionl and persosally velliorganizad fallon

With shoa ope cas nork on a ayarenarse berle, Da apecti

Dose of

blo flue vich 2o alaboracias dle convlaction ches en uprletas 1a

(Ce May) → Cada d0 poseala providad a (ellrd) alcaraciva lo tened, to

ochar polsE vulia la acrossad vas bla daspasa de the lack ol

comprobene ton da che Valtad Steter for hlo cense dod the lack es

support 8ox blo sonoment. I en par la a paritioa tó eriçes hori

Moh of that Do sald la escurare, sus on lse bele of thore los

bouse of comersaston uliù dia, 1 rould cend to salleva pass ol

abas do cald se.

La oloslig, I abould doy thes 20st al our telti ves of a

Ilastad dad procElial naturo doAllAs prIoArlly íES eDa bollosto

proface ant NiEl EDa VeTIONA eCtirlilas valia do ces vaderteto

---

## Page 5

14-00000

oles respect to cha diatribullon of our necariale. I did

dacuse uith his bilally tha idea of rumalos a syaposissa da

CUADERMOS ABORSAIAS thA PrOBODE SERtE Ol EDe CUDEs sevOLuILos,

140 probeblo denolopoent, and the steps maica euRe do caker.

for the preparation of a nou progres for Cuba's developasat.

Re personally bellored that thie would be a uraful thiag for

CUALIRIOS to undertako, and at so llos caesad anxiona to l1a1e

the contritutora to such a symposius to tbosa people too mere

meabers of ble ora particules group. Througbout our talke,

I found bla free of those tendenoles tonard excluelvesesa

raich one encounters so often la priled aroupo, and os every

guestion thether lt conceras tha bullasta or the symposium

LE CUADERHOS, OT OUr pOGBible Vork 1o the Doelafcan Republio,

he egread that objectivity vas the oaly basso upon blab ne

can borkend thet the open

Euro approach nes bast. I found thos

ho mas an easy mes to got along ulth and one tha sekos ca.

Lmpression of slucarity, forthrightnose, dorerainailor, and

dansthing such maro intangible which I vould call parsonal

GlasTaGEs. I Intoad tO look ius waya is working lurther ustb

tila la the futuro.

---

