# 104-10256-10403

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10256-10403

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO

1

SEN R WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND - STOM

~ASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL HOUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

5p1738

3

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

He attactiedt; Fyl. There to an

ricte up on donget attaches to thei

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

ronnya 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FROM:

INCIDENT KEPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Amnionairo - Intonel Bro Only

DATE 14 October 1973

TIME _

1115

NAME Mitchell WerBell

GRADE N/A

OFFICE

N/A

INCIDENT_Call requesting to speak

with Mr. Colby

_ TIME.

1115

_PLACE Powder Spring

Georgia

tel (404) 943-3533

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: The Agency Operator advised that Subject was

calling requesting to speak to Mr. Colby.

Subject stated that he had just finished talking to "Air Chief

Marshall, Dawnee," Bangkok, Thailand and had some information that

he wanted to pass to Mr. Colby. Subject was informed that the

Director was not available and that the undersigned would take a

message and insure that the Director was informed of his call.

Subject declined SDO's invitation to leave a message and requested

that the "Thai Desk" be informed of his call and then terminated

the call.

Files in SR&CD reflect that Subject is generally categorized as a

con man, unscrupulous, wheeler-deeler and a promoter of grandiosa

schemes.

5/01.

348T6UF5ZO1FILEI

deside any toned peron ly dirit on stunis -

CASECLOSGD

ACTION TAKEN: Briefed Jerry Fitzpatrick) DCI/SS, and OFS CIR/D0. Cust hur

(Olarso il Baines)

Thomas A.

Gaines

REPORTING OFFICER

03

L. Paul Shade

HIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANGH

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD SEC (PTOS

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

OPY: DCI/S

"Administrative - Internal Use Only

fe-f-7

FORM 1798

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

FOITIONS.

17 ti)

---

