# 104-10433-10070

## Page 1

AnnA

1104-10433-10070

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATEN

Chief. Far East Division

LANSIFICA

CONFIDENTIAL

MARKED FOR INDFXING

TiFD.

FROM

HO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESI

CAN JUDGE IDEXING

Chief:

WONUSE; Chief of Station, Okinawa

METING

Chief of Station, Tokyo

BAICROFILIA

JUBISCT

DHPASHA - Anti-American Propaganda Material Circulating in Japan

ICTICY REGURS. REFEREES For your information.

DIRECIOR 49260

Forwarded herewith is a pamphlet prepared by the Japan

"Peace for Vietnam" Comnittee (BEHEIREN) for distribution to U.S:

servicemen stationed in Japan or visiting Japan.

BEHEIREN activists

are distributing these pamphlets outside major U.S. bases throughout

BEHEIREN had planned to drop copies of this pamphlet over

the USS ENTERPRISE and the U.S. Navy Base at Sasebo during the

ENTERPRISE's visit there this month.

this planned action

telL Parous de to BEREN's inability to obtain the cooperation

of a Japanese newspaper, LINAMI KYUSHU SHINBUN.

in obtaining a

helicopter for the exercise.

POFRAGRANCE/ obtained this pamphlet

from BEHSIREN beadquarters in Tokyo on 16 January.

2. FJTA-53886, which forwarded a locally distributed BEHEIREN

propaganda poster, was not designated MHPASHA but might appropriately

have been so designated.

Also forwarded herewith is a clipping.

from the ICp's

article also appeared

This article announced that

up 10,000 leaflets, copies of an advertisement

placed in the Chicago Daily News,

May 1967.

A sample of this

advertisement was sent to CENSUIKYO by Fred Bachiyuruta (phonetic),

Chief of the Philadelphia branch of the "Veterans for Peace in

25 - 1but /Attachs 1

: 2 & 3 h/w

1 - COMUSE w/o attachs

1 - COS: Okinawa w/o attachs

Attachnent

Phamplet

2.

3.

Clipping

USNAVINVSERVO Report

Downgraded to

CONFIDENTIAL

by authority of 00.8594

date -

mar 78

FULL TEXT

COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICNTION NEVIEW

CONDUCTED ON / MEN 18

2, IMPDET CL BY 60.85.7

FOSS OSFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYWBOL AND NUMBER

FJTA- 53902

DATE

JAN 29

190%

657

CLASSIFICATICN

SONFIDENTIAC

HQS FILE NUMBER

Unknown

---

## Page 2

00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Vietnan."

AKAHATA

announced that GENSUIKYO has

some of

these

leaflets

already distribur

near U.S. military installations in

Foliosura

Sasebo, and Tachikawa, and that these leaflets will also be soni to

Okinawa.

Also forwarded, FYI, is a USNAVINYSERVO JAPAN, Repori No.

propaganda nevate distanburea of the eras sachs and Stripes

The Paragraph 3 organization, above, is apparently an

affiliate of this organization.

Mark J. LIBGERVOOL

CLASSIFICATION

8-64

53c

•USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

FAGE Pa.

2

---

## Page 3

13.00000

Train chat area Would cease coming

nosy threatening to

esplate into semble Gections which resulted in" antonly will air soldiers in vicinai

Graineal

dork Tiraca, Aug.. 5, 1053.)

Anse!"

Misenioner

world" disister

could not, in my cons, enially farcicul Constitulion and assemily died for nothing but all those wit fonte

might have added

sidered

jugment, have: bech

was only one ol the more recent examples. and died in Wiy fr

cobalt, mangancee,

pulled: off

oil,

rice,

rubber. ura-

lo tim nuel tungsion in his allemplo

without the mistle: or a: Congressionat

The villnse chief clections were another,

lo. defeat the very

es juslification (or the use of public funds

pcacclime conscriplinn act. This war could

Some of the "reapeclables" die now say-!!

thing we ney promote will hare died for?

nothing.

'..•

for sieriai interests.

be-endled in n short Ume cren now.lf tha

Jolie years Jaleo a Democratic Sena-

Congress had refused to

extend military

tor, Gale McGee, of Wyoming, in a Senata

conscrintion beyond Jurie 30, 1967. Serintor

sporch lieb. 17, 'Cs, attempled to justify the

Richard B. Russail gave unintentional sup

Directory of vets groups

killing of Victamese men,

troinen,

and

port to

this

vicly

in the

Scuate craft

Tho

following is a diroctory of Vet-

children,

scbate; May 11, 19GT, When he stated;

them.

don't soo

American

boys. in

these

We Are to

Morris:

crans for Peace groups wa know of.

your

Pleaso

one,

contact

go into the open market and

sond. in

immediately

VS&SP, Box 4520, Chisago, Ill. 60GU0, and

"I'he Empire in Southeast

dasia

correctlons uf.:

is the Inst lurge resource nich outside the

hire mion to constitute an armed force

of

auditions

you

knoly

should ho made.

we'll put you in touch with other vois In

contreal pf any ona of the major posters

3,500,000. 11cn,. there

would hardly

• you sea a group listed In your area, joll

your locality so you can start one. Ga

.. il can upset " e balance of the svorld :

nough money to carry on the olher oper

to it!

I belleve

aiions of government.!" "

Atlanta Volerass for Moace

that the condition of the

fallseases

lich

Senator Russell inase the state

Exchange

Atsanta,

W40r914

Kurt, son lic Peace la Vietuang

Binks

Tol, (404) 527-8628

Milwaukee,

Wisconsin 52209

isolation of lack" Americans In slums and

Boston.-Cambridge

Knowing

these

Veterans for Peaco

273.6316

MaCarter

porcity.

sould imagine

that the loudest voice

conditions One: a5T Massachussells Ave

for

Cambridge,

Massachusefis 02139

cossation of U.S. participation in the Vict.

Tele (817) 547-2370

niun var' would be that of Black Acricans:

Dr. King

Yearnes der Peace in Vietnan

Add to the problem of the urban Negroes

Р.О. Пля 4573

that of some of the rural Southern Negroes

chicage,

was right

rud the justification for demanding tic US

112

421-2499

(OffIce: 1600 41. Mndison stai.

withdrawal from

Victnam becomes

coin-.

Velerans

pelling. One has only to consider the re

Aaninst

lise Mar

Last scar Dr. Martin. Luther

King was.

roundly condemned by much of the Amer-

cent repolt by some doctors of the condi:

Detroit, Michigan

lions thnt prevail in the Mississiopl Delta:

÷Te!.

(91.3)

ican press and by many government offi-

".... We saw homes with children who

Yolerans for peace in Victom

cials (oi associnling the civil rights move-

áre lucky to cat one mcal a day.

670

Jim Thontas

ment with the anti-ivar movement; it svas

334

who

don't get milk, fruit, green vercta-

Charles

streef...jtirts

claimed that great harm would be done

East Lanslug, Michigan

the cause of civil rigits in this county,

bles; or meat... They have llterally no-

thing... They are living under such pri-

velsrins.and

Resemists

Unfortunalely many Negroes wcre siry-

Kalousck,

Ist Floor

mitive condilions that te: found it hard

1110 Randolpli St

cil by these arguments agninst Dr. King

believe we were examining

Taina

Anicrican

and estrained from supporting him in his

Tot.

children

of the 20th Cenlury.": Yet

(713)

934.7179

anti-sar nelivities. It is to be hoped that.

the

U.S. government spends. billions in

Vict-

recent occurrences in U.S. cities will indi-

nam. Accorling to the recent Republican

tal saint lense Co

cate to then that they have been duped.

Party white paper on the Vietnam war

Great Neck,

telenck Луспис

The reccht racial disturbances in some

the U.J, is spending "one-fifth of lts' eno

U.S. cilies should serve to convince the

e7o Allen.

tire national budect"

until now-reluctant element of the Negro

conflict alone.;

community

So on 1h6

:Vietinni

Alexandria

Los Angeles,

that the war in Vietnam is.

And 'consider the horrible

Incongruity"

Peace in Misfoams

not condecive to their interests. These'

disturbances have pointed up the hopcless-.

of ucing able to spend-billions auroad to :

make war on humans and not being able:

ness and despair of so much of the black to

amputalion of this country. It is probably

spend 20 million dollars at hame to:

make var on mntg.."

irrclovnant whether

the majority

of Ne:

Black • Americans should - disassociate

aroes agree on the immorality of Ameri

themselves from any implication

can artien in Vielnant. Put it must surcly

that:

Marion

Wisconsin 53703

Tel.

(600)

258-0958

Mipm!

P.O.

Veinrans for

DOX

ssians,

{Kendalli

Florkla

13156

•Tel.

(905) 235-1888

they appiove of or condone the Vietnam

he obvions-or rapidly becoming so that . war.

They

should lot it.hc

known that

it is ridiculous to concentrale so much

they object to having

Binck American'

American

money

Jn. Vietnam when

ie:

fighting men asked to lay down their lives

hare a malor eriuls right here in the U.S..

itt

Vietnam,

beenuse

the, real..light for.

The crisis of hadequate education and the

accaom is right here right 10.

DISTRIBUIE: VETERANS

STRIPES

FOR

STARS

PEACE. TO

SERVICE-

MION IN

YOUR LOCALITY! (63.00/100

copies. deliyere.

$15.00/1000: coples. 8e-

avered.).

УТРАТИТТ5

1828,

University

statiot

Minneapolis, Minnesota 55414

Tar Ba, Are to Peso

Fair Lawi.

Yote ans for

New York, Few For 70etn

in strainst the Wa

Now.

York,

Neve

York 10003

Telo

(212)

909-9378

Note nox for Pease la Vietnana

Philadciphia,

Pennsylvania 19108

Pillsbursh Vetcrans ter-Pease

•BoX 106

Carnegis Mellon University

Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania

15213

Tel.

(912)

521-7117

Roskland County-Veterans

Sloatsburg,. New York 10974':

Veterans for

Peace In Vlotnam

1544 Serenih

netter

Diego,

Col. 92101

Tol.

(714)

232-6219:

Veteranas

Raphact Waya We Can San Juan

Cadis

Diego Mo, 1

Rio

Pleuras;

Fuerto Rico 00825

'Veterans

.

uns for peace in Vistnam

flashinaton,

Tolo

(202)

225-9330

Weslelester

• Со.

(HY)

Veterans

sor. Peace in Yelram

I wures Sireat

110111086,

NEW

York

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 7 maid 1978

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Was the ton oc ber 1: So Tul details to of your dirty foral war, to hone

Washington October 21st; for full detailss Ip on your dirty, immoral war, to

in our ponce ainction effort. Many tanks.

i But to etern of a gie Offer drate Mi

connet any local peace organization,.

the and allerinte the suttering of our own

Purrin Nosmate: Arse

The mal lene do best mall coltain ae

Prustain

wealthante end, can only, lend to a schellion,

•P.O. Bus. 247 Cannertlee: Ni

majod article one the emine losult Pisssil-

ande milannent in

the

U.s.

MIcarthike.

The tast:

those who nee inturested in this frant ot

HOW SHOULD WE SUPPORT OUR MEN IN VIETNAM?

opposition

Sei

to the

1118: 01 sunt specili

tig advice

on" their

oin Solective

Servier:

siluation can contret the Draft Resisinner

1. Do so send more to be killed and mained? Already to be fliled in with curront figure whon publishad) Americans have been kill-

•Clearinghouse.

8 Fiancis

Mindisis,

2. or soul wo bring theo. home now ive so men roon and chen are entic sist

Wisconsin 53703, tel. • (6OS) 255-6575.

We veterans of Van misle capig a sadie with Can David M: Shoug (ch

¡Corps;

duving. the

Cuban missile crisis, who said:?:

N.Y. vets:

"Free Lovy

"I believe that if we had and would keep our dirty, bloody, doin-crooked fingers out of the business of these nations so fill

of depressed, exploited poople, they will arrive nt a solution of their own. That they design and sant. That they fight and.

Neis Xork vols inined Aunust Sth in i

sork for. ..: and not the American style, which they don't want and above all don't went cranmed down their thnats by

3000-strong march led thru Midlown Man.

Hattan

slicets ly a large contingent

of

Amoricans.

ward? world catastrophe,"

wort is happening, no matter how carchully and stowey the muitary escalation, has progressed, may be prosecting us. to.

white-clad.doctors,

merlical

dents and hospital workers. The marchers

called for relense on bail of Ur. Howard 1.

Lovy," U.S. Army

Captain sentencod-to

.: thrce sears at hard labor fur refusing lo

REAL SUPPORT FOR ÖUR MEN IN VIETNAM COMES FROM THOSE WHO DEMAND:

"DRING OUR TROOPS HOME NONVIII''

*Spooking at the annual Junior Collago World Affairs Day, Pierce Collago, Los Angeles, May 14, 1966, and reaffirmed in on iniorvicw,

ABC-TV Scopo program. August 6, 1967.3 t

*Wring to the editor of lie Palo Allo, Califi Timos, March 3, 1966.

train Special Forces aldmen' on grounds

they use medicine primarils for

politici

and military purposes.

At a concluding rally the demoistrators

card to Viet vols: Di. Arthur S. Mlant

1., chief nsychiatrist in Saigon'and Bie

Hon hospitais in 1.965-G; and Jin Cranb.

Coordinator of Vietnam Volerans Against

the War.

Name (signed in pen)

3 anatos, Name (printed so we, can read it)

Dr. Blank sail, "Ossicais and sergeants

in this country and abroad, in basic train-

ing centeis, in hospitals; and in the base

Address. (number and strect, printed) ,

City, State; Zip (printed

camps in Victnam, building and maintain-

Telephone. No.

ing an aimy and fighting a sar, know

full

well that anony

them

dis-

Branch of Servico (printed) ..

In what ycar? oh,

as Highest rank held

@ I contribute herewvith•5.:

¡torraid publication of this statem

Please send is copies of thie ad lot mos

scht from national policy

and obicct to

Decorations won

the war. Opposition does not stop at the

induction center.

Ili my escrience, the

belief that what we aro doing in Asia is

wrong, is as

widesorcad in the Arnsy as

it is anong all our people."

( Picase criter my sulscription to vs&st it is

$5.00 for the duration of the war' (frce to ser-

vicemen at their military ardress) i.

• Herewith is my contribution of-s.

# to help N

publish SeSP. I will send s.

montily T

1 Herewith S...... for a. buncle. at $15.00/1000,

$3.00/100

conies, Send.,

...copics montily.?A

Make checks payablo to VETERANS STARS

STRIPES FOR PEACE, Sand to.P.O, Box

Chicago, Illinois 60600.

.. "The soldier's patience is great, but il

vetaions " Sints"&

"Strines: for

Perce

published by

• Veterans. fon. Peace in

Victnam, 1608 W. Madison St., Rm. 201,

Chicago. Ill: GOG12; Tcl.

(312) 421-2699

:: 5g/copy, $3/100, $15/1000

Editor

McDonald Moor

Vict Vete Editoi

Jan Crumb

palitorint Asst.

Dink: McCarter

NY: Recional Id..

Ron Wolin

is not endless" Dr. Blank concluded, "and

we thank Dr. Lory for reminding the na-

tion of that. Someday, what is happening

this

summer in

America's

happen in Amcrica's army,

cities,

coul

Ive do not.

have forever to end this wal:"

This cOpy of VETERANS STARS & FOR

PEACE distributed by:

VETERANS & RESERVISTS :

FOR PEACE IN VICTIAM

AN F3 P. 0. 20X. 7353

PHILADELPHIA, PA.

---

## Page 5

13-00,000

17

LIl

October 21st

A

lelfer to the President

2025/

Shoup

connect from Front

* ді? •

pisses!

(continued. front front' page

.. The following laller.

Was sent

and civil

sir. ill this

COUt

•Vielnam was willing lo neuolinie.

warmllnk canter's "normal" business of

dont Limon. Johnson. by a, Chicano

Col-

:Iloincd the Velerans for Ponce In Vicl

The progrant opened

with the dollorsing

• 01911:.

organizing shaniesale death.

Miusy.

thou-.

10

oar Mr. President 18

Nun because I have a vision of al.

better.

tribute paid to General Shoup by President

workel. I leaflet the induction center here in 'Johnson in a

White

House

ceremony ill

sands of the marches are estated

Recent events. prompt me

to write: 300;

chicaro evory sock with the cnclused lenf.;

10G3

Up011

Shoup's relisement-as Con-

block all Pentagon entrances lo stor

the

this Irtter.:

Moirls fall me to' express n:; let which quoles six mulitary leaders. They,: mandant of the Marine Corps: .:

was machine fos as lony as possibic...

horror. and condemnation of your presch! espress

schtiments morc. cloguenly:

"We have come here to the first house

Those poople sho can nic urged to re-i

of aïlion in Vict Nam.

than I over could

main in Washington Sunday, Oct. 22,

COUrSC

and

Not too long ago I had a vivid drean a

Em closer & bosceen you, me president to

of the lund loday to honor General David

shoup,

not becalisa of the

ridlories

possibly, longer

for

additional

actions. " that I can not foryet. I say & South Yiel-

reverse our prescht policy which can onis

iwhich he has brought to our country, but

Velcrus will hold their first national con-

namese named ThaningS;

In his black.

lead this nntion toward. destruction. (Viti-

also for the honors he has brought to our

¡cience Sunday..

pajamns, perintfit these words on his knces

drasi our troops now, and end the ivar. It

heritage. He. is a man of great discipline

-Build-up activities for: Oclober 21st in.

while hidden in a rice paddy::

for nny reasol you feel you can not do this,

tho cares about people.:.'.

clude:

These arc

"the' times

that try

men's

I surrest you resign..

Othervise,

history:

•"I riceply regret his relirement from the

Dilily actions at Washinglon

Scicctive

ouls. The black marketeer and the Salgoi

sritten of this period, will, I am sure,

IC.

service for he is one of an uncominon

Serrice Tid, and Ilnuse and Schale Aimed

General-ivill shrink. from

the

service

of

cord you as being the most dinstardly. Pre-

breed whose numbers are too sniall and

Services Committees starting Soul. I1th...- his

A National Draft Rclusa

icliois Oct.

hes cocate love and thanies of man and see

but he 1h0 stands it now: silent. this nution over had...

•shose duplication is loo fare. I would per-

A Wood-Culler front Illinois

sonally have had him contime as Coin-

woman.

Tyrany. like. Fiell 'is not casily.:

Lumir J. Subrt

manilant of the Mirine Corps."

Gih, sponsored by The Resislance move

nient.

conguered. Yet le have tiiis one. consin.

It follosed with:

l'once caravans of cars from all parts

tion,

that the harder the fight the note

glorious the triumph."

of the U.S.

to: a hamlet, I sass n

A huge Washington folk-rock fund-rais-

proud of soul to a can oldiers thY n

ing conceit Friday night, Oct. 20111, kick-

so-clied Viet Cong about 15"

infe. oft the sycekend.

rogating a sue American adviser not Just

years old.

Yets are signing a statement:

quoting:

turned hint over. to

this. crout.

He had

opposition to the war by General David M.

fust. been

caucht: wilh some stolen: hand

Shoup,

forner U.S. Marine Commandant,

grenades made. in the

U.S.A.

•all Rear Admiral Arnold E. True,

which. ir,

Would you knos that he gurgled thru

sill

ve

publisherl in

papers

in cities

the blood as they! slowly' silt his throat,

trousliout the U.S. along with calls to these words: "I regret that I have but one

local citizens to join the Peace Army.:

The full text and a signature blank aps

Meck- to lose for my

mas Nathang Hang.

& countre " His name

penr below. Please sign it if you are a:

:: Before I woke up I caine upon;a,

gup:

veleran, and get it back to us at P.O. Box.

of micrillas rathered around a jungle nic.

1508, Chicago, Ill, GOGSO. Vels and non-yets

Ticir leader appeared to be giving an in-:

alike. let us

know hor many. additional

bassioned specch ending with these words.'

copies you want for circulation.

As for misself, either give me liberty

siguer coples of the statement must be

give mo doath."

mailer in by October 1, 1067 10 insure pub-

• Does this ring a bell? When will we re.

licalion.

Be sure to indicale whether your

turn

to our traditional. nolicy

of.self-slconns

rels group is planning to publish the ad;

tomination for all peonie? "'?

locally.

Dissent right periled

Contressional hawks and segregaton.

ists are pushing a series of. Inses aimed

at.

stifling dissent and protest.

These

include the Cramer

(so-called) - "anti-

riol" bill (IT.R. 421); a revival of the

dafunct

Subversive.

Actisitios

Conlrol

McCarran. Act (FI.R. 10390 & 10391):

and. the . Pool

disschters"; bill

(H.R. 8T.

H.R. 421 Ins passed the linise;

others will be coming up soon for

the

vote

hoth the House and Schate.

Jour

letter or wire to your Congressman and

Senators can heip stop these blows to

first Amendment frecdois.:

For further information on these bills

and suhat to do about them: Irité Na.

Lonnl . Commitico

to Abolish.

HUAC.

PO Box 74757. Los Anreles. Cali. 90001

M 431 S. Dearborn St., Ronm SOS, Chi-

agran. Ill. 606n5..

GEN.

SHOUP (spenking lo Seali, Au:-

gust, 1967): I don't believe that, ivith ir.

spect to the frecion and securily. uf the

poople of the United States of America.

far today or in thie future that the whoir

of South

Vietnant is worth

the life of a

single American.

Atlanta vets march,

visit Captain levy

Atlanta's Hiroshima Day Peace Pararic.

wat so. far in. the South

witls over G00

marchers. as led by the newly forni

Vetorans for Peace in Vietnam..

The 1sie

dozen vets. black and white, and icaring

their cans. included the Rey. Rall her-

mat a leader of Dr. Martin Later is

Southen

Christian Lendersbiu Council

The Atlanta vets organized a solidarits

Vietnam Veterans Assainst Mic War are

deleration which visited Cipt.. Haunl

coming a chasm. Mr. President, the icast

placine their oun ad in the New'

.York..

the Army doctor court-martialled

sons j'ou anel your asministration give: is

Ties inal may be conlacted it 17 E. 171h

for our involement in Viet-Nam are too?

Letter to the Editor

for his anti-mar convictions, on sundas.

Aur. 201h, at Ft. Tackron, Columbia. Soilth

SI.. M.Y., N.Y.

10003 (1cl. 212 989-0376).

-10146

Time

nast

issue of USeSP will

cooled "all of the prople

Carolina..

could you senil me

ine. list of velerans an They report Mi. Lery in escellent spirits

specific plans concerning vets' maticipa-

some of the tinic." Noir die time is.

rainst the nar who live in Now Island

"Lesy has supporter on tee lice, record

lion in this important ence action.

But

approaching when you sill fool naberis

Massachuselts, New

don't wait

in start your, local arganizing

Tians Jaland, and. Vermont!?

off bion in disilin mistlier

trol 01.

no! ivrite us with your ilens so sie cans;

Mirror Can

is much anti ger

gathe out

---

## Page 6

13÷00000

find post dise:

to three!"

..i'

?..i

idiolent

to tracergians die dro ded of pollin Sunde

1888/19090, 14.81°

these dia die despondes indoo

i told

disin lot.

call s00d, in 189y

894088.

!: 11'6:

Hillsoll.

natalion set it

care sinned

lo coldlood in de solared Closes eidered Boss il 1lle9

tills aboralone: spide

Maller Me Mis

1910)S

1ol one wallen in turnoil i

to foole liberior.

"grape trollon are Mose dy

• Prince dee do percore; Mile bedro codd 10.

liothis:.

Miltre of

and

Alrisin

Irriga in these

Asin

A bodietro boat the cosslilion of the

Di. King

was right

Jad your Dr. Aladin Luther King Was

roundly condemned by Iuot of Tie Aies-

in gees and by many governinent offi-

rials to associating the civil rights move.

nicht with the anti-mir movement; it was

clairend that arent here would be done

the cause of civil rigils in this country.

Unfortunately many Negroes were sway-

a by thee agumonts assinst Dr.

King

and retained from sapperting him in his

anti-sar activitics, It is to he hoped that

recont occurrences in U.S. cities will indi-

cale do them that they have been duped.

The recout mucial disturbaners in some

U.S. cities sliorild serve to convince the

until now-taluclant clement of the Negro

communily that the war in

ilot

condecive to

their

Vietnam

is

interests.

'These

disturbances have pointed up the hopeless.

Bens sued despair el so much of the bluels

papilation do this country, it is probably

irrelevant whether

the anijority

of No.

aries niece on the inmerlity of Ameri-

can neticin in Vietnam, But il must surchy

alsions oo mpidly becoming so-that

• wal'.

it. is

ridicuious to

eden aile, to much

morie11

in. Vietnam when we

have a mininn crile right here in the U.S.

The crisis of inadequate elecation and the

rangers begone done co, 1enid, dender

Drectory of vets grouss

fort

this

desale drait

debate, Nay 11, IOR, When he slatoo, It

is nate the spee: market and

13.5002,0948 0948. 127018,

This

Tallossing is a dircelory of Vel-

their. li

crans for Pence groups we knew of, Please

don't

12118,

resiliet

senil in: Imistiately

V9S5P, Bue 4520, Chicore, 11l, 10279, ind

corruchlorss it

we'll pur you in louch

additiors

you

know chould bu inade.

s9e011lid

Han ly

114!

your locality so you can turt on.

you see a freel lintre in your area, Joll

to it!

alin: of terrorison,"

Velerosss

for

TA TOTTA MATTE

лІлиія,

sinor gin

30303

Tel: (8811583-8623

timber bene

Veterans for reace

1088 Portie

Mitrauline,

Versinsssins 31203

T01 61141 273.4913

1s801d

dossion:

0016

seniled immine.

frit

cusation of 10.5. participation in las Viel.

Plenchuss lls Ayt.

19.1s.1610190111 02138

bel: (58) 597-2570

lensivelodiy

Mlencapolis,

ilimesota 55118

Merous fu!

Mell los the poodlen dof the carlan Neggrese

lease is Victuans

r.uл.

Ill.

40400

marl the justification long drameline the CASS

11-.299

(Ulsice: 1609 1% Asadlison St., Mins, 208).

withdrasad foom Violan becomes

660111-

pollinge One has only-to consider the ra-

Volories Awainst the Mar

Neve Jersey

Veterans sor peace in Viotisan

іГоїх: 70

Nes York, diew

Yorle 15011

eone report by some doctors of lise condi:

Deiroll.

Mlicligsn1

lions that prevail in the Mississimal Delln:

Tel. (213)

8U2-5700

We sie homes with chillich sho

nie lucky

who

sit

ulie meild i dily

Vet in to Peace in Vietnam

1T East

Yoris,

siree!

ilew

York 10033

Towers

don't set mills, fruit, areen voyeia-

Cliar es

Sirre

bles, or mcat... They have literally no-

Lost benals, michinan

hing... They are living under such pri-

Lictins ani Rescrits for Peace in Vicinam

Kalo sick,

Ist Floor

mitive conditions that see lound it hurt

11-10 Rancolpha st.

to

heliove Ive

were crantining

American

Gary, linines:

14:07

chikiren of the 20lh Cenlury."

Yct

the

U.S.

porcinment spends billions in

Viet-

2003, necording to the rocent Republican

Parly

white paper on

the

Victnam

Great We MeTorie

wur

the

U.S. is sponding

"one-flith of ils sir-

tire

national budgel"

Yet ANG 12 Percela Vietn

the

Vietnans.

North

Mexandria

contlict nonc.

-0: Anquies,

Calilornia 80004

And consider

the horrible

incongruily

of being able

to spend billions abroil to

make war mn humans nd not being abic

to spend 20

million dollars at hame

102 Marlos

91. 61) 350-009

Misconsin $3703

'Tel.

Bladle Americans should

disnssocialo

themselves from

Ally

implication

that.

Mianal,

Per cour 236.4968

oliject to having

Blacke

americin

fighting men asked lo lay down tacle lives

fis

Vietanm,

the real

fight. tub

arcedom is righe here, right mess.

DISPRINTS VETERANS

STRIPES

L'EACE

STARS

MEN IN YOUR

T'O

LOCALITY!

SERVICE®

($3,00/100

$15.00/1600 coples dia

War 1!

NG-D0X 1

Prass In_Vlalrans

philadclulla,

Pennsylvania 19125.

Pushursh Valerans fer-Pease

pillswergh,

Parissure Hennsylars 15213

Pennsylvanis

(412)

19492

P.d. Dox County-katerane-lor-susco

Sloatsburg,

How fore 10778

Vid Pans for peace in Violaone

Pisco

144 Seven e

San

Diego,

Cal. 92108

Tul.

(714)

231.6218

Vileranos

Pro par cil yicinan San suan

Raghech

NavarrE

Cidit

Disgo il0.

dio Piedris, Puerlo Rico 00725

•Vitorans for Peace in Viulnam

1.0.30X 302-7179

Washingsvo,

i). С.

T'al. (802)

243.1190

Mislebelor co.

(WY)

Yorti

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Octobes 2ist A letter to the President

The following loller seen send lo Presle:

and sill tver los this countrs.

marushing denless "nol" business of

slalenale deith.

Many

there-

the marlos ine espected lu

lonG 101211011

doison lose de Chieugo tele

I Juincil Ura Volorans for Pore In Vini

Naun Deemse l have it bisten at a heller

serial. I bended the inlution cents here in

Del Mr. 1rerl0911:

Recent events prompl me lo write you.

Chicago every seek with the coelenier leade

This holler.

Wordle Toll me lo espress 114.

hot shied quotess six milllary lenilers. Miy

cord martine los als in its premaille.

Heros and coulenions dof your possest

spens my sentiments mere

These perples who can to miged les le

course of action in Viet Nam.

than lover could.

main in Menhandon dunlay, Cet, 12, alad

Not

too long age I had is sivid droom

In closing, 1 Presen you, ive, President lu

puisilly:

longer

abolitional

action.

•Ahal I eins not forged, I sino i Soull Violo

reverse din present policy sohirl can my

Velerans will hold their fird national con-

man960 da1e

In his black:

Jend this nation tossare destruction. With-

un his denie's

dea our troopes nose, and oud the swar. It

Perill-go activities fur Ortober 21st In-:

while hidden in a rice pilly:

Cor any reason you feel you can not de this,

clucks:

"Iload are

the times

that try

ment's

I 813056 8901t

scarion.

hisilory

Daily artions

at Washinion Selective

suuls. 'The blard markalion aud thee Saigns

wrillen of this period, will, I am sure, ice

lioneral will shrink fron

nervice if

Bored sons as bold lie most sastrally 'is

sept.

1 1th.

His emuntry, bull. le

sho stank

1. not

sident this nalion eves. has.

devertes the love and thanks of man and

A. Nilional Draft liersil delion

Oct.•

A /Voo-C'ulLed from Illinois

tyranny

like

fiell

is not casily

Lunir J. Snort

loin, sponsored by the Resistance move-

conquered. Yet we have this me consoli-

mint.

Peare caravans of cars from all parts

tion,

that the hardos the fight the nire

#lorious the brianih." •

ut the U.S.

1 huge Wushington full-ruck Sus-rais-

Jiter,

coming

to

& hamlet,

i saw

wroup of South

Vielnamose soldiers inter.

ings coneert Friday night, OcL. 201l1, kick-.

rogating a so-called

Vict

Cong abou!

ing off the wreckerd.

years old. The American adviser had just

Yels

no signing a starrent quoting

turned him over to this group.

He had

opposition to the war les Coneral David M.

just been caught with some stolen hand

Slioup, former

U.S.

Marine

Commandant,

grenades made in the U.S.A.

and Rent Aomiral Arnold 8. True,

which

would you know that he gurgled thil

will he

publisher

in

in

citics

the blood as they: slowly slit his thiant,

Margegiont thie

U.S. alony with calls

10

these words: "I regrel that I have but one

local cilions to join the lare Araly,

neck to lose for me. rountry." His Bi:e

The full Lost and a signature blank ip-

sas Nathank Mang.

flonse sign

it jon are it

Bofore I woke d I chale Moon A fru

veteran, and nat it bink 1o 115 al 1.O. Bos.

of suerillas mallered around a jungle sire.

15,18, Chicago, 1l. CCoso. Vols and non-vels

Their leader appearel to be giving an in-

alilis, 1ol, 1a5

lads hoss many addition

passioned speech ending with these irrels:.

copies son want for circulation.

"As fus' musell,

either give me liberty it

igneed copies of the statement must loc

sise me centh."

mailer in leg Drober 1, 1907 lo insure pull-

Joes this ring a bell? When will vi lo

letion. De sure to indicale wether your

turn to

DUl'

traditional moling of self-li

vals gramp is planning to publish

the al

termination for all peoplo"

The so-called credibility man is fast lice

Dissent right periled

Cuncessional hawks and segriciation.

ists are pushing a series of la's aimed

al stilling dissent and

proicst.

These

inclucle

the

Cramor (so-callel): "anti-

riol" bill (H.n.

121); 2 revivial of the

defunet. Subversive

Activities

Control

(Ne:Circan) dot (H.R.

10350  10391):

nl the

Pool

"55422'

dissenters" • bill

(H.R. 81.

Ir.R. 121 his passed the Ilouse; the

•there will lee coming us soon for

sold

in

both the

TINUSC

and Scute,

YOUT

lellor or sire to your Congresaman and

Senators can helo stop these blon's to

First Amendment freedoms.

lor Puther information on Thesd bill:

a shal to do nhout thom: Trilo Nie.

lionel Conmilice

AbolisH

Pi) Nos 71757, Toss Angeles. Calir, you!

1.31 S. Dearborn St.,

Room SO:, Chi-

•gosa, 111, 1606005.

locally,

Vie mun Vetorane Against die Win are

placing lincir own id in the New

York

coming & chasi,

President, the sein"

sons gou and your asininistration give lis

Times soul may be contaried in 17 l%, 171h

Cor our Involiement in

Viet Nam ire indi

Lotter to the Editor.

il..

MY.,

N.Y.

10003 (10l, 212 084-11076).

shallor and names for any thinking viti

Tie most

issue di.

VS&SP

will

carly

You

have tooled ill o

spacitic: pialis

pie licipil.

some de the tinis dos

is...

Cout you send me llse list il solecans

i cried the mean ashlo lite i dese benglund

cion ja this important peace aclion.

Aut

approachine will deit

soil pull a start your local arganizing

The only s991'

 the Nels

loic

the bary viril

Show

continued pren fredd

Vietnam was willin: lee montilled.

The present papered witle there Cellossins:

1063

11211)

Shots'?

811111.

Deo have conde here do line lirit herse

ilf.

Hernand of tar:

rirlol.'s

alice for Lue homors he hes brantle los 015

hecilage. de is a man of arat discipline

1h0 6193 illaed pomple.

Go he is selle

• 1199111-9

More sole mean de dece dong diss.oll ill.

sonaliy hase hand dire continue do Cine

mandant of the Marine Corys."

It. Colined With:

GIN. SHOUD lipesking lo Scali, An

Must, 1967): I don't belise lied, will is.

spot to the freedom and scririts of d

people of the

United Stales of

marie:.

for toilay on in the inure that the sinut

of South

Vielnant is worth live life ot i

single American.

Adlenta vots march,

visit Captain Levy

Atlanta's Miromina Dis lorre Parnia,

tie hugene demon ration seinst the Vint

rat in the south with over lic)

mirchiers,

sis lead leg the Missis

Veterans for bence in Violam.

The tir

dueen sets, blood and shite, and scarin:;

may, a boarded of be gracie i met 2n72

Southin

Christian LikeWin Counci

shielt

visited Corin.

the adam doctor condonantiadai

his anti-d comictions

wit

S11n.1.88;

Mug. 2019, ar Fr. Taclood, Coincided, South

They report De Casy in ese dont sptil...

let dilates tor..

=. '''

' 440191

---

