# 104-10326-10011

## Page 1

1AAA

1104-10326-1001

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MAENO?

98-1247758

SECRET

-SENSIND: RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE :

1

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: LA/ MXO

INFO: LA/DEFLI, LA/MXG, LA/MXSTB, LADORECORD,

LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, C/LA (2/P)

98 1247758

ASP

TOT :

PAGE 001

231646Z APR

98

DIRECTOR 784515

SECRET

STAFF

TO :

2316462 DIRECTOR 784515

PRIORITY MEXICO CITY.

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM LA/MO INFO LA/SA, LA/ MXG

SLUGS:

WNINTEL RYBAT

* SUBJECT:

ISSUE

FURTHER ON

LITAMIL/9

<JFK ASSASSINATION>REVIEW BOARD

REF:

MEXICO CITY 26721 98 0975333

TEXT:

1.

COB 4 MAY.

ACTION REQUIRED: PLS PROVIDE INPUT TO BELOW ISSUES BY

APPRECIATE REF INFORMATION.

CURRENT PERSONAL STATUS OF

LITAMID/° (L/EN IS GERMANE TO NEAR TERM REQUIRED INFORMATION

BELEASE DECISIONS WITHIN THE<JFK> REVIEW PROCESS.

INTENT CONTINUES

TO BE TO PROTECT FORMER ASSETS TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE UNDER

*RIGOROUS LEGALLY MANDATED<JEK>RELEASE CRITERIA.

3 .

-I/OES TRUE NAME HAS ALREADY APPEARED IN BOOK "OSWALD AND THE

CIA"JBY {JOHN NEWMAN, BASED ON OFFICIAL MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY

INADVERTENTLY RELEASED.

IN ATTEMPT TO LIMIT FURTHER RELEASE OF

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION WITHIN THE OFFICIAL DECLASSIFICATION

PROGRAM.

UBLIC DOMAIN RE T/9

.. AND/OR PUBLICITY BASED ON WHAT IS ALREADY IN THI

REQUESI STATIONY COMMENTS (IN ADDITION TO

REF) RE FOLLOWING.

ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WHICH STATION IS

ABLE TO PROVIDE WILL ASSIST IN JUSTIFYING DENIAL OF FURTHER

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION AT THIS TIME.

(REALIZE STATION MAY

BE

UNABLE TO ADDRESS OR OBTAIN INFO ON

SOME OF THE ISSUES, BUT WOULD

APPRECIATE WHATEVER YOU CAN COME UP WITH, PARTICULARLY

RESPECT TO ITEMS B,C, AND E.)

A.

-CUBA)

ANY KNOWN{L/3 FAMILY/RELATIVES CURRENTLY IN MEXICO OR

LIKELY IMPACT ON L/S AND/OR ISIATTONZOPERATIONS RESULTING

*EROM MANET NO RUBIE MA RESTATE AS FORMER ASSET,

C.

ANY PAST OR PRESENT

9, COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY WHICH COULD

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

RYBAIZ

MHENO:

98-1247758

-SENSIND :

BE ADVERSLY AFFECTED.

D.

PROBABLE RECEIPT OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT PENSION_BY 1/9/

REQUEST STATION'SY THOUGHTS ON THE POSSIBILITY OF

RE-ESTABLISHING CONTACT WITH (/27

LEAVE TO STATION JUDGMENT IF OUTSIDE SOURCES CAN SAFELY BE

QUERIED WITHOUT DRAWING UNTOWARD INTEREST IN I-

THANKS.

~55 FILE: NONE. CI BY: 0TI2052T EL-REASON=I-5(€), DECI

ONT XL,-DRV FROM :

CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>

RELNO: DORELSO100945919

LA/MXO XJANNI, 47758) ; AUTH: C/LA/MXO (LUCE) REL:→

/LA/MXO (LUCE).

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE:

2

D

SECRET

---

