# 104-10181-10116

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10181-10116

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECL.ZT

TRIED TO CIA

Do Not Reproduca

8 March 1967

HENORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&d

SUBJECT

: Itailan Aspects of the Clay Shaw Affair

REFERENCES

:

A.

FBIS-37, 7 March 1967

B.

Your meno of 3 March 1967 on Clay

Shaw's Connection with Cl

Orleans investigation of a Kennedy assassination conspiracy

and the involvement therein of Clay Shaw.

as having been connected with the Centro Mondiale Commerciale

Other persons listed as involved with CHC are:

D'Amelio, Henrich Mandel-Mantello, George Mandel, and Ferenc

No E/I traces were found on any of the above.

Hungarian desk traces were found on Nagy. RID traces on all

persons are in process.

In regard to the information in FBIS-37, a check of

E/I desk files disclosed no traces on the World

Center, Clay Shaw, Major Blumenfeld,

or PERMIDEX.

were found (Attachment C) in the Annuario Parlamentare, 1963-

64 edition, on the CMC, which is noted as

connected with

PERMINDEX.

We believe

that the CMC and PERMINDEX are identical,

respectively, with the World Trading Center and PERMIDEX

mentioned in

No RID traces were

found on CMC.

1963-64 Annuario Parlamentare listed Nikolaus Fischer as managing

director of CuC.

No E/I traces were found on Fischer. RID

traces on him are still in process.

A check of the 1963 and 1964 editions of the Annual

Swiss Business Registry, held by the Swiss desk, disclosed

further information on PERMINDEX (Attachment D), a commercial

firm with a wide range of activity located in Basel, Switzerland.

OCR/FID file information lists PERMINDEX as a Swiss

real estate and'property managenent firm and lists its management

follows:

Other

President - Dr. Herner von Arx

Officials - Timothy Fales, Dr. Otto Wiesser

r. Nikolaus Fischer, Randolp

Vetter.

SECRET

incie tid isa 15=:..

---

## Page 2

14-000000

SECHET

-2-

(Note: All of the above except Vetter are listed as PERMINDEX

officials in the Swiss Business Registry listings.)

Attachments

SECRET

---

