# 104-10186-10227

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10186-10227

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5

INFORMATION REPO

INFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE -AGENCY

Tas masteral metalso tantratos alecelas tse tarsonal Derrato ol ese tallas diatre tierla lDa mranine al the RepRoDago Lave MICio

il i'SC sea To and TAl ião eranamladoo de Ivialios or mata in dou manner lo da unauthoriend parano la, probloitad by lam.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUAECT JOSe REBELLON AlOnzO

DATE DISTR

CSC1-316/01238-64

9 October 1964

'NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Repreduce

DATE Of

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington, D. C:

DATE ACQ. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORNITION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes

supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

the

first checking with this Agency.

Source identified JOSC REBELLOY Alonzo as President of the

Federacion Estudlantil Universitaria (University Student

sure datated dost

Headquarter Comments

1. An untested source, in a report dated 8 July 1960, said that

JOSe REVELLON

one of

the

student leaders at the University

of Habana; he was in the School of Engineering.

In a report dated 31 May 1961, a usually reliable source said

he was told

by an untested source that Jose REBELLON Alonso,

a student in the School of Engineering at the University of

Habana, was a Communist.

3.

A Cuban national, untested, stated in a report dated 26 March

1962,

Jose REBSLLON, a captain in the Army is

the

Director General

of the Becados (students who have received

scholarships) at the University of Habana.

3

2

MANY

CINCSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I AIR

INSA

I&NS

INXXX

I DIA

ARHY

REP

CIYCLANT

Hese. Fiaht Eistribution inderated by " #".)

NORMATION

AL'SA/EORD NELS,R

75-2

2ICL/REA

BIDLAK

3 LEBRITISA

WISH BR

AEL SALCI

• AH/SA 7 (1), RE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

LIAISON

TFBI 2

REPORT

LX - 1820

NO PROJECT (AMNUG/1)

CSCI-316/01238-84

MiHK

R&A

D: swk

VIBR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FORFIGS DISSEM CSCI-316/01238-64

-2-

1.

An untested source in a report dated 5 July 1962 sald that J080

REBELION Alonso, recently elccted president of the Federaelon

Estuciantil Universitarla (FEU), & Cuban university student group,

was scheduled to leave Cuba on 19 June 1962 for Canada.

reason for the trip was to attempt to reach an agreement with the

University Student Federation of Canada which wants to broak

rclations with the FEU... He

was to pass through dexico either on

his way to Canada or on his return trip.

An official Jamaican service), in a report dated 5 Octobor 1962,

stated that Jose REBELLON Alonso was one of a group of Cuban

students who arrived in Kingston from Habana on 25 June 1962 and

• proceeded to Toronto on. 26 June 1962 to attend an International

Conference of Students.

REBELLON was listed as having been

on 7 August 1936 in Holguin, Ortente, Cuba, and his home address

wag given as the University

of Habana.

6. A fadrly reliable source, in a report dated 3 April 1963, stated

that Jose REBELLON Alonso, leader of the FEU, is very close to

Fidel CASTRO and very opposed to Juan MARINELLO Vidaurreta, Rector

of the University of llabana.

7.

In a report dated 5 September 1963,

an educated Cuban whose

reliability has not yet been established, stated that as of late

June 1962, Comandante Jose REBELLON Alonso was Director of Plans

for Latin American Scholarships, Commission of Foreign Relations,

Partido Unico Revolucionario Socialista (United Revolutionary

Socialist Party - PURS) and aiso president of the FEU.

8.

According to a report dated 26 March 1964, Jose REBELLON Alonso was

to proceed to burope to courdinate efforts on a new

milk plan which was announced by Fidel CASTRO. REBELLON WAS

designated to lead up this new milk plan.

9. An untested source, in a report dated 28 July 1961, stated that

as of 6 July 1961, it was planned for Major Jose REBELLON Alonso,

Secretary of the FEU, to leave the University of Habana somotime

Source said it was possible that Joaquin MAS Martinez

would replace REBELLON as president.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i/BR

---

