# 104-10102-10077

## Page 1

104-10102-10077

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTS

U==

UNLY

CONFIDER .AL

SECRET

KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

interitios

FROM:

EXTENSION

i:

NO.

Here"

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprocked

1590

DATE

IT Jan 71915

2รท11

Has

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number

eoch comment to

show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Deruty Director for

Cherations

7226

2.

3.

Inspector General

3

2524

4.

= B

/2/

175

5.

Jewel File

7.

8.

9.

10.

1-3

I

disiussed this

with Del who

suggested that as

the overall subet

dealt with

had been

and a cleas policy

additional,

this

11.

1554a!

12.

13.

abortel

in??

meterds,

15

vies

3-44

10 PeOS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERM AL

USE DAL!

UHC.A5517130

---

## Page 2

S' TOP SENET

1G-0.1

17 Jame cy 1975

VT:

SUSJECT

The Inspector Gearnl

: Demity director for O'erations

: Cuestionable Activities

In 1950 the writer devalored an moruited Jose Raul Mantices

Murez (201-261382), a Cuban national and a rarkin; Cubana firline pilot.

Mr. Vertine re uested an enorger

menting on 13 July 1960 to

th't he was the likely choice o pilot a chartered Cubane dirline

fli ht frun Havana, Cis to

Co pick up Rail Castro Buz sno his

officint pasty.

was scheduled for 2l July and that he wild definitely eilot the aircraft.

readquartors ud oropriate field at tinas along the flict route tere

advise of the fli at schedule; re miremento vere requested.

On the norning of 21 July Hascha rters sont a TOP SEOUT R73IC

OPEZATICEE DORDROE ClOle DIRECIOR 40923 CUT 989/1, 21 July 1950) to

the Pavana stution rising tht inosaible remunl of to three leeders

is roceiving corious consideration at bendauntero" and requested the

Station at is outin to contact is.

rtines ano deteruns his willinmess

to coopera e in arrangina an accident during

the return trio tron Prague:

Tao cable mid that. Head uer ore mata do villing in offer a bryment after

mocessful con linn of 510,000.66 or a caused le alpunt in excoss of that.

Goely OiS Haruna, Instructe

the riter to meet with r.

Innhine and eate leern our interenbo,

in concueney meetin. are to ta

rahuele unite priving to the air cat. Dr

"oul beke a

2, 2. 90: 007.

Mediate cons rare inna dollse cucubina.

Fan cx-117.

Capeturnina to the Gation the wron

.?drice thet an OREl eable Cut Conca 40015 MUT 00096, 37 Jule 2260) hed

bone racetrar at to Station dironta: tra stin to margit the carties

inabrictioos.

= Er 84

shira gue debriefer do the ather deon is cotto fron

in to has peer

politerange as dendent auch

do not ran te

Parer'?

let took pendit?

T0260608

*12838

---

## Page 3

TOP. BEGAST

_? -

in ="7?

1907 in :i mi,

Florida were tamil 11i02

though it is probable tat ir. Arthur avignon,

living in the vachineton are) may have resd tha pertinent cables.

Tillian J. Marcy

c/lulurentios

icincher:

(2)

(3)

27. July 1067

TOP SEUMET

---

