# 104-10119-10388

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10119-10388

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

25 Apr1l 1968

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR TES

RECORD:

SUBJECT:

KAPPES,

George Michael

#C 218827

At the request of Mr. Fred Bucci of OS, a review was made of

Subject's file to determine 1l there 18 any Indication of an alleged

acquaintance between Subject and one DEBORD (phonetic). The inquiry

originated with Wa Division who called Mr. Bucci for Information because z-

of his past position with Project unnAVi.

Subject was approved as a Staff

Agent for use la Santo Doritago 1n Jenuary 1968.

The Division had heard

a rumor that subject was acquainted with one DEBORD (phonetic) who was

"close to GARRISON" (District Attorney Jim GARRISON of New Orleans).. A

review of Subject's aS file proved negative.

The undersigned also reviewed the security file (#C 241598) of

Lawrence J. LA BORDE whose son, Michael, furnished Information to

GARRISON. The results of this review were also segative.

(Copy of

summary OX LA BORDE prepared for the GARRISON Case is attached).

The only simllarity of Information in the two files which might

be considered as a possibility only of such acqualatance 1e ae followe:

Subject was employed as a small boat operator with Project IMARC at

Key West, Florida from January to September 1961. Lawrence J. LA BORDE

was granted a Provisional Covert Security Approval in March 1962 for use

as a maritime asset for Project MATE In the Men, Florida area.

Mr. Bucci advised he would furnish the undersigned any additional

information that night develop that would involve Subject In the GARRISON

Investigation.

Sarah &. Hall

SR8/OS

Att. as Stated

13668.

GROUP 1

Exciuded fram autamstic

downgrading and

deglassification

SECRET

---

## Page 2

114.00000

'EGRET

20 Foverber 1957

SUPJECT: LABORDE, ICbreace I.

(see 1280 ERMING, Cerald Patrick)

ALT ECATIOR:

Lawrence J. LABORDE, 58

year old former part captala,

visited the New Orlesns DCS

office, said he tas an eX-CIA

enoloyee and feared GARRISON

would subpoena bit. LABORDE'S

son, Nichael H. LAFORDE, bed

furaisbed GARRISO inforzation.

May be & GARRISON provocation.

CIA CONNECTION:

LABORDE vas grantei 6 Provisional

Covert Security Approval on 24 March 1961

fOr USE aB A TarItIMe aBBet fOr Project

JHANDO A CSA Mas deferred pendinE

receipt of additional bio date ar

subject. On 24 April 1952 cleurance

ectlon was cancelled as subject was

no longer of luterest to Tril.

SOURCE:

Visit by Subject to Nev

Orleins DOS offlee in May 1957

and phoned DoS office In Few

OrIBans 1n Septerber 1967.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject's fIle reflects little bio data and because of this

lick, a request for & OSA on 17 MiTch 1961 for use as a maritin asset

on Project JMATE was deferred until receipt of furtber inforartion.

A PCSA las pranted on 24 March 1961 for ussessment of Subject. On

24 April 1962 the request for the SA vas cancello: because he was of

no furtber interest.

An FBI report of 23.May 1952 6n.1d Subject had contacted repre-

sentatives of tbe Cuban Revolutionary Council In few Orleans, his kobe

torm; bud offered his services; and euld he had been running a boat

out of Key Host smugeline Cubans and guns sith the inoledge of CIA.

A Marl report of June 1962 disclosed that LABORDE had been

ernlaje? by the U. S. Department of Agriculture I0 1'er100 11 1947-1949

but wis fired for excessive drini Inn, discharging unauthorizei firearms,

and non-support of dependent children.

The New Orleans STATES-ITE of 23 July 1952 navel Subject as the

source of bitterly ant1-CIA rerurks chi an article in the DiVEr POST of

3 June 1902 also eppeared to be based on stäterenta fror LADordE.

SEGRET

Excluced trem automatic

dangErating Bad

declassification

with

15i- scuti

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SCUnLI

AnFeI report of August 1962 stitod that subject had duped

certain persons into buying a schooner, the "Elole Riechart, " by

claleing that be and a crew would operute 1t for cuban operations

which would be pals for by the U. S. Governest, althougli, tbe

rovernment could not openly achnouledge the suppart.

DETAILS!

When LABORDE vialted the New Orleans DES office on 1l Bay 196T,

he asid be feared that GARRISON would subpoene him und sald he vas

the DOS office to tell him that to do. Subject's visit sus belleved

to be a provocation by GARRISON 1n en sttempt to antrsy CIA lIto

advising subject to leave Louisiana.

tals would bave buttressed

GARRISON's charge that CIA and the FBI are attempting to obstruct

the course of justice In New Orleans.

- 2.

SEGRET

---

