# 104-10187-10152

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10187-10152

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

~ RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

GERAGE LONG

•SECRET

*o"Do Not-Reproduce

17•808

(100 10018

CLINES TREND

''.21

1lG 64

:, SALVADOR

DA DIRECTOR

ANO LiP, WMiSA E, Cr, Cilios, colod, F1, iR

51r09

SALV

INTO.

WH bir

SURE ELEAN DEFICTUR

441377

REE:

SALV 5205(IN 55452)*

1. HDQS HAS DECIDED TO SURFACE PENNES INFO DURING EXECUTIVE

SESSION OF CENTRAL AMERICAN MINISTERS IN TEGU IS EARLY SEPTEBER 64.

SHORTLE DERBAFTER INFO KILL BE SURPAGED BE RESPEGTIVE STATIONS TO

LOCAL LIKISON SERVICES WITH REQÜSST FOR ROUNDUP AND DETENTION OF

MALALA LEADS WHERE POSSIBLE. THIS SURFACING WILL 55 TUS SUBJECT OF

SUBSEQUENT CORRESPONDENCE TO SALV AND ALL OTTER STNTIONS CONCEILED,

AND WE REITERATE THAT NO ACTICA TO 3E TAKEN UNTIL SOU ARE SO ADVISED

BY HDQS, FYI: ABOVE PLAY STENS IN D'PART FROM NEER SUGGESTION

CONTAINED PARA ONE SALV 5196.

IN VIEW ABOVE, WE HAVE DECIDED THAT dO FOLLOWUP ON PITCH

REASONING HERE IS THAT ANY ARBEST OR HARASSHBNT CO HIM ALYOST

INEDIATELY AFTER ANOTHER PITCH WOULD HAVE NEGATIVE RESULTS OY RO

RELATIONSHIP WORE HE TO ACCEPT SCRUITENT.

PRECIPITANILY I LISTICiTING PITCH TURe

DO? "E BELIEVE THAT APPROACH SHOULD BE FOLLO.EO UP AT LATER

DATE.

PET LISATAS.

ONE KEP IT NESTING, WILL BE STOPPING

OFPICEA

AJIMEATICATING

DORICER

SECEET i

REPRODUCIION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OLGETS PRONIN •ED.

3/g0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

; UNIT .

EXT.

MESSAGE FOR:

_SECRET

O NO INDEX

OFILE IN CS ILE NO.

ROUTING.

5

8

10.

LiOn DIRECTOR

INtO

•

44137

IN SALV AFTER MINISTERS IT

MEETING AND WILL DISCUSS

CASE IN DETAIL.

PLS PROVIDE DETAiLS DE APPROACH MADE TO ROS RY

*3 WAS

MENTIONED. DID ZINEST BRING THIS UP, OR DID ESTEEN VOLUNTEER

WILLINGNESS TO WORK WITH SONED BUT IT SAL CONTE

• 4. WE ARE REQUESTING PON ON SETOUR

•AND WILL ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

WHI CONNIENT:

*Ref adulsed of pitch to Famen, recruited Cuban DGI

agent, in San Salvador.

HIT MEET

3/00

---

