# 104-10422-10214

## Page 1

nAnAr

1104-10422-10214

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA MCADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MABERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLU11: :

BOOK I- INVESTIGATION. OF JFK

ASSASSINATION - PERFORMANCE OF

THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES

EBACXEROUND FILE ON "72 WORKING GROUP STUDY,

INCLUSIVE DATES:

1963 TO UNDATED

"CAMMENTS ON BOOK I

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: /G- BRECKIURIDEE

55C FINAL REPORT!!!

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

NATE

RECEIVED

RETURNED

7.00.38

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NNIE)

CHUCK BERK

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chua Beck

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILI.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

7:

verton

Lee Harvey OSWALD first came to telfal

attention

upon receipt of AIRGRAM no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, from

the

United States Embassy in Moscow, in which it was stated that

OSWALD had appeared at the Embassy on 31 October to renounce his

American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in Moscow

for Soviet citizenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on

15 October. The first public reference to OSWALD appeared in the

Washington Post of 1 November 1959.

that

On 2. November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedpa...

trace

CIA's

be run on Lee Harvey OSWALD in the Aga

The

central hold-

ings.

g3. response on 4 November was negative.

Because of the counterintelligence implications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to accommodate biographic infor-

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of

State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of American de-

fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's name was one of those

appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3

November 1960; a final reply on 21 November 1960.

Until early

October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-

ted entirely of press clippings and reports disseminated by the

Department of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the

Department of the Navy.

On 8 October 1963, the CIA Station in Mexico City repuired

can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ

sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV,_to

whom he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier, on

Saturday, 28 September. He asked whether

there had been a reply

to a telegram

that the Consulm with whom he had

spoken, but whose

name

he could not recall, had promised to send to Washington.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

OBYEDKOV. had attempted to establish the identity of

_the Consal

with whom OSWALD had talked: if it had been a dark person, then.

in had probably been [Valeriy Vladimirovichl KOSTIKOV. : OBYEDKOX

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSVALD the

telegram had been sent to Washington but no answer had been re-

ceived.

This information

received in Headquarters on 9 October. (MEXI -6453 CIN

36017

9 October 1963 I A file check on 10 October by Agency

personnel

I washington revealed the possibility that the Lee

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably vith KOStIkoV

and Lee Harvey OSWALD, the defector were the same person.

On 70 October 1963, CIA Headquarters disseminated by cabled

EDIR 74673. 19 October 1963) the report in substantial the tom

24049425250

and detall given above, to government agencies whose jurisdictiona

42 md

parta

oe one vary, and the interation and Naturalization Ser

vice, A comment was included insthe-report noting the-liklihood.

S408222285

that Lee: OSWALD was probably identical with the forner marine who

had defected to the soviet Union in 1959.

- ...

[Comment:: For some un

explained reason, OSWALD!S Statement that he had been to the Soviet

Embassy two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt,

been included

in the dissemination.]

On the same day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to the-

Mexico CIty Station

ton a lengthy cable summary (DIR 74830-10 October

19631 of the background Information held in the Headquarters ale

on CaN The Mexie city Station was lestructed to pass the sub.

stance of its October report to the local representatives of the

same U.S: Governent agences and departments that had been the

information in washington.

B-to Agener

filos

pn was pasze

the lega

the

the

Minis

the

tical. Aff:

---

## Page 4

13-00000

OBYEDKOV had attempted to establish the identity of the Consull

with whom OSWALD had talked: if it had been a dark person, then:

it had probably been [Valeriy Vladinirovich] KOSTIKOV.. OBYEDKOV

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSWALD the

telegram had been sent to Washington but no answer had been re-

ceived.

received in Headquarters on 9 October. (MEXI-6453 (IN

360172, 9 Ocrober 1963.l A file check on 10 October by Agency

personnel in Washington revealed the possibility that the Lee

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably with KOSTIKOV

and Lee Harvey OSWALD, the defector, were the same person.

On 30 October 1963, CIA Headquarters disseminated by cable

EDIR 74673, 10 October 1963] the report in substantially the form

and detail given above, to goverment agencies whose jurisdictiona.

interests had been established by a review of OSWALD's file. the

Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Departmont of State, the De-

partment of the Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Ser

23093

vice. A comment was included insthereport noting the-liklihood

that Lee OSWALD was probably identical with the former marine who

had defected to the Soviet Union in 1959. [Comment: - For some un-

explained reason, OSWALD'S statement that he had been to the soviet

Embassy

two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt been included

in the dissemination.]

On the same day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to the

Mexico City Station

a lengthy cable summary (DIR 74830, 10 October -

1963] of the background information held in the Headquarters file

on OSWALD. The Mexico City Station was instructed to pass the sub-

stance of its october report to the local representatives of the

same U.S. Goverment agencies and departments that had been the

information in washington

Songener filos the a

in Me

ản 16

october ralthe lega

the Minis

the Counselor

was pas

ed

sache as well

the

Political Affairs

the

---

## Page 5

13-00000

haules

Mentince

1a club

President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy 1

callar

for further information or follow up investigation.

on 27 November 1963, atter the news of the assassination had

reached vexicody the station indurated a revier of all voice

Intercopt

-photographie coverage of both the soviot an

review of voice intercept transcripts.con=

ducted by the monitor and other Station personnel turned up other

conversations Me

• on 27 and 28 September and

on"l

October 1963

These transcripts were reported to Headquarters

on 23 November 1963 MEXL-7023 (TN 67108) = MEXL-7025 (IN 67188),

and MEXI -70334 (IN 67232) -12

From this revier by the Station it became evident that OSWALD

had also visited the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and had talked

203026/200700/032

there with

a Mexican natfonal, named Silvia DURAN.

ublicity about Lee OSWALD, Silvia DURAN

had told number of

relatives and friends that she had talked t

OSWALD about a Cuban visa.

ut a cuban Visa. SilVia DURAN and her husband, Horacio

DURAN Navarto, vere detafned and questioned by the Mexican police

from 23 to 25 November 1963.

After giving some of the details of her own personal back-

ground - she was an admitted leftist sympathizer and had formerly

worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations - Sil-

via DURAN said that when she first heard of the death of President

Kennedy she had been depressed and thought the assassin must have

been a maniac. When she learned he was associated With the walt

46507402 50er

Play for Cuba Committee", she did not believe it.

When she learned the name of the assassin was Lee OSwALD

she remembered he was the man who had come to the consulate about

4202120

73724654753 263062-sa

two months before to get a visa to pass through Cuba on his way to

the Soviet Union

she realized that he had said he was married

Russian and that he had betonged to the

Fair Play for Cuba"

group.

She checked her file on him

and

---

## Page 6

13-00000

from the description of OSWALD, she was sure it was the same man

OSWALD was denied a Cuban transit

Visa because he did not yet have

a Soviet visa, and he was told to get the Soviet visa first, but it

was noted that this, would require about four months.

She had asked

the Cuban Consul himself, Eusebio AZCUE; to talk to OSWALD and they

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to leave Mexico instead of

wattig there. The consul had phoned the saviet consulate, and

tatted to the person handling OSWALD's visa request, who had said

"it would take about four months to hear from Moseow about the Sovi

visa

The

13h41900

баню

afternoon, OSWALD had some back again and

told him

othe same.

Stagama

SA2S45a

225.

thing

She gave OSWALD a sLip of paper

name and telephone

number on itin case he ever got his Sa

He did not call back,

-She- said.

Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

from 27 to 29 November but she did not change or add materially to

her story about OSWALD.

It is known that the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico, Joaquim

HERNANDEZ Armas reported on the detainment and interrogation of

Silvia DURAN by the Mexican authorities. The Cuban Goveriment also

sent the Mexican Government a stiff note of protest, which the Mexi

can Government rejected.

On 26 November, the day after DURAN's release, Cuban Pre

Sident DORTICOS queried HERVANDEZ about his report. HERNANDEZ COnS

firmed that there had been an altercation between OSWALD and Consul

AZUE. DORTICOS made a persistent but unsuccessful effort to. de

796688 de.?

termine from HERNAVDE? whether the Mexican authorities had threate

42040

nod Silvia DUrAN so that she would make a statement that the Con

sulate "had siven money to that American"

HERNANDEZ's

-response

was that nothing of that sert had happened, INEXT -7068 CTN

26 November 1963; HMMA-22545, 29 November 19631

The "CIA follow-up investigation produced the following

confirmed results which have a bearing on Silvia DURAN's account:

a. 27 September. In mid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN infor

---

## Page 7

13-00000

• 5 a

med the Soviet Embassy that a male American citizen had

requested a visa to transit Cuba on his way-to the Soviet

union. She costred to know with whom the American had

spoke at the Soviet Consulate.

Also she indicated that

---

## Page 8

13-00000

the Cuban Consulate could grant him a visa and arrange

immigration details if the concession of a Soviet visa

were

assured.

b. 27 September. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURAN

received a confirmation from the Soviet Embassy that the

American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown

them a letter from

the Soviet Consulate in Washington indi

cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself

and his wife to go to the USSR. No answer had

come from

Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes four

or five months. The American also had a letter attesting

that he was a member of a pro-cuban organization but he had

claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he

had already received a Russian visa.

Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate

Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give hima transit

visa unless a Soviet visa was forthcoming, notwithstanding

the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his

Soviet

visa.

According to DURAN, the American knew no one

in Cuba

and she interded to make

an appropriate annotation

on the American's card.

The Soviet official echoed her

statement that the American was not known.

c.

28 September. Silvia DURAN was again visited at

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. City by the American seeking a

Cuban transit visa.

Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two mem-

bers of the Soviet Embassy and facilitated a direct con-

..... . ....-

versation between one of the Soviets and the American.

Speaking in poor-Russian, the American stated that he alr

ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had left, an ad-

dress. The Soviet official replied that he was aware of

that. The American suggested that he had not known his

address then, and he had gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they had it. The American then

---

## Page 9

13-00000

acceded to the Soviet Official's invitation to come by.

and give them the address.

do 1 October. In mid-morning an unidentified individual

speaking broken Russian, contacted the Soviet Military

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the Em-

bassy the previous Saturday (28 September) and had talked

with a Consul who had said they would send a telegram to

279 27744022

Washington. had there been a reply?. He was referred to

the Consulate for the informatio

These

were promptly

disseminated it

by tho ChAuto the

Federal: Bureau

gation.

23 November 1963; CSCI-3/778,826, dated 23 November 1963.1

But rats balleved that the soviet officiar with whom osw

Si: 90. 4,38

dealt in Mexico City was. Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

KOSTIKOV, born on Moscow, i7 March 1933. In his letter of 9 Novemb

ber 1963 to the Soviet consulate In Washington, OSWALD wrote about

"hts "neetings vich comrade KOSTIN (sic] of the Soviet Union In Mexi

co City, Mexico" There is no official of the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City with a name resembling "KOSTIN' other than Consul

KOSTIKOV -

hostleras the senior officer of five

• Soviet Consulat

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters.

was firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV was a Soviet

State Security (KGs) ofticer, and the other four consular officers

were also know of strongly suspected of being soviet state securt

personnel serving under offfcial cover.

-KOSTIKOV was believed to be a member of Department Thir

26-3544621

teen of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB. Department Thir

teen is responsible for executive action, including sabatage and

assassination, Its headquarters, according to vEry reliable in-

formation conducts interviews or, as appropriate,

file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the ussR to study and to deter

---

## Page 10

13-00000

-173-

mine the possibility of utilizing the defector in his country of

origin.

Comment SWAleontact with and be dat

Boss fficer of the 13th Department, was fad

possibe

merain

the

or more sinister reasons thanfto

btain travel documents allowing him to pass through cuba on hi.

Therefort

way to the soviet union.

*CIA

great deal of the and effort in trying to make a determination as

to whether OSWALD, as the assassin of President Kennedy, might have

he settles the copalety of a wittins agent of a fordion power

rariew

and study of a1l available material

- that OSWALD had been acting under dire

tion of the KGB

The Agency also examined all available information in

initica.

2875

attempt to determine the exact nature of his contacts with the Cu-

ban Consulate in Mexico City. The Agency was equally unsuccessful

in uncovering any evidence that OSWALD's contacts with personnel

of the Cuban Consulate had any other motive than to obtain a tran-

sit visa for Cuba.

wanting

oSwaLD's reasons fortraveling to the Soviet Union have

never been satisfactorily determined.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

"The: evidence indicates that

Lee Harvey:

OSWALD: was. in Mexico City from 27. September

1963 through 2 October 1963. - On October 10

1963, Bureau Headquarters was provided with

-a copy of a CIA cable which stated that ! Lee

Henry OSWALD! [sic] had been' in contact with

the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on

ber 28, 1963. 36:

- Footnote no. 36: CIA cable from Mexico Station

to FBI Headquarters 10/10/63, memorandum from

LEGAT, Mexico City to FBI headquarters, 10/18/63;

"All: the information that the EBI had prior

to November 22, 1963, On OSWALD's activities in

Mexico City came from the CIA. On October 3,

1963, the CIA Mexico.

Station reported to Head

quarters that OSWALD had been in contact with t

the Soviet Embassy:

1965, CIA

passed this information with some background

material to the Navy, the State Department an

the FBI "The Mexico Station made a similar

distribution to FBI and State Department offe

cials to Mexico& Since OSWALD*was an American

and since FBI was the responsible

agency disseminating this information ended

ClAts-responsibility in this matter.

Eunabove quote from sook ves

The CIA dissemination of 10 October 1963

PTR 74673) to the FBI: Navy, and State, Made no mention

of OSWALD's contact with the Soviet Embassy on 28 September

1905-Arthough this a fo matton had been eported to Head.

quarters by vext cess (IN 36017), e october 1965, the aet lon

desk neglocted to includ in its dissemination

Cion to OSMALD'S celephone call co the soviet Embassy

404200242004

I Octaber, OSHALD had mentioned that he had visited

Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1963.

On 8 October 1963, not 3 October,

the CIA

125044046262

Mexico Station reported to Headquarters that OSWALD had

been in contact with the Soviet Embassy The cable was

received in Headquarters on 9 October 1963:

c. The Mexico Station made a similar distri

bution to FBI and State officials In Mexico on 16 October

1963.

This memorandum addressed to the Ambassador with

copies to The Minister, the Counselor for Political Af

fairs, the Regional Security Officer, the leg

the Legal Attache,

the Naval Attache, and the INS representative included

---

## Page 12

13-00000

the statement that "This office determined that OSWALD had been

at the Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1963 and had talked with

Valerty Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV, a member of the Consular Sec

ation, in order to learn if the Soviet Embassy had received a

reply from Washington concerning his request.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

It is also instructive to nate

that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

FBI DireCTOr HOOVER an the morning of Na-

vember. 26, 1963, and after noting that the

President wanted to make sure

the CIA was

giving the FBI full support, specifically

offered to make

'CIA's operational resources

in Mexico

available to the Bureau aND

The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI asked the CIA to conduct an investi-

gation or gather information on the assasst

nation case, but middle-level CIA personnel

did routinely provide the Bureau with infor

mation that came to their attention

855ssination case. "

-96, радо 39, V[

24398020

Coment: Herevi chen incomplete 1154,05 requests From the FBT

for assistance and information from the CIA.? The list speaks

£053.

Itse

26-November

1963,

Subjects

Richard Thomas GIBSON.

(Paraphrase)

During the afternoon of 26

HorenDer INANITION 1? passed to the FBI

representative in Bern a report (quoted

in full in the cable).

-Tho FBI reprOSON

tative immediately notified ELMARD (P)

and after discussing the content of the

report it was agreed that ELMARD would

CARFaCE INANITION SORRESTI

"ELMARD em-

phasized the utmost importance the US

Government attached to follow-up of this

matter ELMARD received prompt answers

to initial questions and arranged to meet

WIth INANITYONZO, INANITIONTo in company

with the FBI representative in Bern.

[BERN 2292 (IN 68312) , 26 November 1963

28 November 1963

Subject:

Rumored $5,000 bank deposit

made by OSWALD upon yeturn fron

Mexico

on 3 October 1963.

The FBI has just levied on us an official

request for full information on source

ne origin on cano canne tine thous anc

dollars. bank deposit.

DIR 85654, 28 November 19631

---

## Page 14

13-00000

28 November 1963

Subject:

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO

The FBI liaison officer (S. PAPICH) offi-

Cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

#turn ALVARADO over to Mexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican

authori-

ties: to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it understands. that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

polygraphing. and requests that CIA re-

quest Mexican authorities that he be poly-

graphed.

The FBI

expressed a desire to have

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

blo and that the Logal Attache be kept

advise

of, developments

[DIR 85663528 November 1963)

9

MT PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November

He referred to the fact that there ted

report that the Third Secretary of the Cuban i

Embassy The Hague, Ricardo SANToS, has a pro

CASTRO brother in the United States-? He stated

that he rould appreciate our cheeking our files

or täking such other steps as may be fidicated.

torprovide the Bureau with the identity of the

brotheresaid to be in the U. Sa

[Memorandum from CI/SIG to Chief, WH/3, 29

November 1963.1

December 1963-

Subjectes Chinese Comnunist and CASTRO Plot.

At O9UU on 9 December 1963 Mr. PAPICH of the

FBI called and advised that the Bureau had a

conmuntcation fron their Miami field office

setting,

förth' infornation: which' had been re-

ceived in a memorandum fron our office in

Miami concerning a report which had been re-

coived from a Western diplonat alleging that

the assassination of President Kennedy was the

result of a plot prepared and executed jointly

by the Chinese communists and CASTRO through

intermediaries.

ME. PAPICH stated that the

Bureau would like

to evaulate this information if possible

much interested in

any information we can give on where and how

this diplomat got this information since it

would.help the Bureau to evaluate this informa-

Alone de said that the bureau would find the

---

## Page 15

13-00000

identity of the source and possible access

to the source. if in this country,

most

helpful. - 24

2454

[Memorandum for the Record, dated 9 December

1963; Subject:

lee Harvey OSWALD.

18 December 1963.

Subject: Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSWALD.'

"On 18 December 1963 a representative of your

bureau requested clarifying information about:

certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

te.a firearm once possessed in the Soviet Unron

by -Lee OSWALD..

Ne were asked to determine what kind of weapon.

this

abie

19658 Subjecte

byslee

-to therEBLedated 19 December

Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

RUB)

Ton Decembet 21969, 9 teter had

been forwarded toe friend of his waned

Jose.

Antonio Juan.

Mr Juan had received the

his-son Hiving in Cuba:

he statement was nadey

Tit is

known here that RUBINSTEIN was here a little

Tess than a year ago visiting a I PRAusIa

owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles,

Tacated on Prado: Street between Animas and

Irocadero, opposite the Sevilla Biltnore."

sin an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack Le RUBY has possibly visited cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

SIFS. Memorandun to the DDP,

dated T January

1964 Subjecte

„Jack L. RUBY"

9 January 1964

Subject. Lee Harvey OSWALD

Ättached fs a copy of a memorandum from the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Harvey

OSWALD dated 31 December-1963 and an enclosure

to the memorandun containing names and addresses

found in OSWALD's address book and other papers

at the time of his arrest in Dallas, Texas. It

will be noted that the Bureau has asked us to

---

## Page 16

13-00000

deternine whether any of the listed names,.

addresses or telephone numbers have in the

past been connected with the Soviet intelli-

gence services

Memorandum for Chief. OS/SRS; dated 9 January

1963; Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.J

14 January 1964

Our Chief of Station in Mexico dispatched cable MEXI

(IN 98273)], advising of a request on the part of the Legal

Attache for

the development of information concerning one Damiel

(SOLIS! Knowledge of ROJAS,

whose name appears

to be.Llario

ROJAS

Villanuev:

ast-year old mexican citizen residingen Guadalajara

alleged notebook aidato be in the possession of son strand

alleged. ofFicral, otthe American Goverment, Said to have been

Contact WITH OSWALD

Coconet, baned Alber

tNU

[Memoran

GOT.

72 February: 1964

Subjects

Eladio ROJAS Villanueva.

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer that the

COS tell Luis ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of gobernacio, name of

subject and that with ROJAS agreement plat to give him a polygraph

and promise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of the resukts of the test

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would Prefer have thes

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, if CIA strongly prefers i

get their headquarters' and subject's agreement to go to Texas:

(MEXT-8117 (TN 15081) February 1964T

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

additional questions be put to Daniel sOLis:

a. Verify if SOLIS has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva

aka Eladio

VILLANUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

ab.

Ask SOLIS to forward notebook if found to:

Mr. Edwin 0. JOHNSON, Consulado, Americano, Guaga"

lajara, Jalisco.

2726266010

-Letters in possession of VILLANUEVA indi

35-2126

cate he was in Cozumel with Daniel SOLIS for

2923

at least three months in 1963.

-Can SOLIS re:

call dates?

d:

ASK SOLIS if VILLANUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or. Americans while in Cozumel. Ask him

Thow VILLANUEVA occupied his time.

IMEXI-S19A (IN 18129), 12 rebruary 196411

25. Fébruary: 1964

abrect

Jac

-RUBY.

reciated if your could promptly:

format

Lon avarlable to you to

ravel by RUBY y

M.: SCOTT

dated 25 February 1964

gal Attache (Mexico City) ; Subjects

[Memorandum

from. Clai

Jack: Li

ANDERSON

13 April 1964.

Subiect Lee Harvey OSWALD'S Access to Classified

Intormation about the U=2-

Reterence is made to your letter, dated 13

AS 0420 +

ApTIl 1964, Captioned Lee Harvey OSWALD, 1p=

50470681

M32224

ternal security Russia,

Cuba!

: and to-the

attachuent which contained statements made

Eugene J- HOBBS, HMC, USN:

"Your letter

requested certain information regarding sub-

Lects Marine assignment at the Mayal-AiT

29332

Station, Atsugl, Japan, in-1957-and 1958."

- 32224

[Memerandum for Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation,

dated 13 May 1964,- from CIA. J-

---

## Page 18

13-00000

10 June 1964

-Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

It is belteved this allegation that

Achaer

OSWALD was in Fangier, Morocco, should

be investigated-and-you are requested to

conduct the necessary inquiries, If pos-

sible, to resolve the allegation Inasmuch

as it appears that the President's Cormi

ssion contemplates the issuance of its re

port in the near future, it is beliaved

this matter should be handled expeditiously

[Memorandum to Director,

Central Intellige

Deputy director, Prans, dated 1o June 1962,

from Directo

8July 1964

LEE HarvEy OSWALD.

vior of the foregoing factors, it would

be appree

tated if you would review material

ailable to you concerning the activity of

Radio Mascow in an offort to identify the

two-minute broadcast referred to by OSWALD

in the aforementioned documents

"We would also appreciate advice as to the

telephone number in 1959 and the currer

-2272

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

M=4/204

33202266

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele

phone number V 36588 was listed in the 1959

Moscow Telephone Directory.

"It would appear to us that if OSWALD particl

pated in a radio program for Radio Moscow, this

fact would have been known to the KGB and a re-

ference to

such participation would_likely have

---

## Page 19

13-00000

been contained in OSwALD's KGB file.

"It would be appreciated if you would question

NOSENKO in light of the foregoing observations.

1007525

In this regard it is suggested that NOSENKO_ not

145242574585 72 7

be informed of OSWALD's possession of the name,

address, and telephone number of lev SETYAEV "

Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency, Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans: Subject Lee Harvey OSWALD -Internal.

12227

Security - Russia Cuba; from Director, FBI.1

---

## Page 20

13-00000

"The [FBI] supervisor also testified

that he never had the opportunity to ques-

tion 'D'On- the morning he arrived* in

the CIA turned 'D': over to the

requests to interrogate:

'D'. - He

learned that the Mexican police. had exhaus-

tively interrogated

canted his allegations. "and that he had re-

Footnote States, that "However, the EBT Mexteo

CIty Legat later trad access to D' and juterro

gated hi

олі: 221

Novenher

and left on

Cember 1963

Comments:

According to MEXI-7124,

28 November 1963 MALVARADO

was, türned-over

to the Mexican Ministry of Government. at 1630

washington time on 28 November 1963-1235 nove v made a

accordance with fiT's request on 28 November 1903 to leaduat

hat the Mextcan City Station

TUrN ALVARADO OVET

anth

5g 222

28. November

19631

The inference.

of this quote from Book Vis that CIA

used obstructive tacties to prevent the FRI supervisor. from hav

42S70 54t

access to ALVARADO. The authors, however, do mention in' a foot

532075200 F

note, that the Legal Attache did gain access to ALVARADO, but this

tactic does not remove the unspoken allegation from the main body

of the text that the CIA had been obstructive.

The Mexico City Station files show that the Station

and the legal Attache worked Closely together.

In fact, DIR 85661, 28 November 1963, tells the

Station

that Larry KEEMAN from FBI now in Mexico. He was sent especially

to follow up leads on the entire assassination. Headquarters

asks

that the Station "cooperate with him fully"

---

## Page 21

13-00000

"On December 1

1963, CIA received infor

nation that a November 22' Cubana airlines e

flight from Mexico City to Cuba was delayed

some five hours, from 6:00 p.m. to 11.00 p.m.

E.S.T. awaiting an unidentified-passenger. {68]

This unidentifiod passenger arrived at the

airport in a twin-engined aircraft at 10:30%

pelle and: boarded the cubana airlines plane

without passing through customs, where.he

would have needed to identify himself by dis-

playing a passport.

The individual travelled

to Cuba in the cockpit of the Cubana airlines

plane, thus agat avotting Identification by

the passengers: [691

Footnote nos. 68 and 69: " Cable from CIA Head

quarters to Mexico Station,

12/1/63

1VS 60-611*

1963 is in, error,

chernours

agraph

are not exact

He a

ted i December 196 ne

20040re

dated 1 December 196312

also incorrect

cable in question,

DIR 86054.315

30. November 1963 It

reads as- follows:

Has has received-report that on.day. of

Prestdent Kennedy 3 assassinat fon (22 Nov).

Cubana aircraft delayed its

departure Mexico

City five hours from 1700 to-2200 awaiting

Important passenger who arrived Mexico city

Airport in private twin motor aircratt at

2730 hours Mexi time:

Passenger transferred

6-2900050630976022570

00300/56708220009

customs

umigration.

Travelled in pilots

16-4022

cabin to Havana

345 3632

Headquarters

went on to say that the information came from

MULCER diplomat who had been a passenger on the same plane to

234-70037600

Havana.

Headquarters asked the Station to attempt an identifica

tion and to determine the reason for such unusual actions at the

airport.

The Headquarters cable is included in the OSWALD official file;

and a copy is also in the Mexico City Station files. There is

nO.

indication

anywhere that anything was done

in response

to Head-

quarters' requirements.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

On December 3, CIA Headquarters first

received information from the Mexico Station

on a-Cuban-American: According to Passport=

Office records, his file there was: checked

on Decenber s byarepresentative-of the

CIA. * This ClA representative testified that

he couta-not rocall such a check or the-ro.

port." (CIA Liaison Officer Testimony,

5/7/76, p-9.)

"On December 5, the Mexico Station ca-

abled that a source saw the Cuban-American

board a flight from_ Mexico-City to Hayana

reported that he 'looked suspicious'.:It."

also reported what was then known about his

itinerary.

LV. 301

Commentst According to a Memorandua for the Recova, asted to De

cembet 1963, from CT/SIG, It was subsequently:

determine

MES ROMAN Of Liaison, who checked the records oe passpor

through

Divi

12X0544494358

sion of the Department under the passport number

name

aS

en

La IN 22615 MEXT 72161 Chat the subject in this instance

fact a person otherathan the one cited by the Bureau.

The subjec

of interest by reason of both name and the number of the passpor

is Shown in the Department of State Passport records as Gilberto

POLI CARPO Lopez

On 5 December, the Mexico Station did cable that

Gilberto LOPEZ "departed as only passenger on Cubana flight on

night 27 November for Havana. There was no mention that he "Tooked

suspicious This formation appears in a Memorandun for the files

dated 5 December 1963, from Willard C. CURTIS, 1.ens On 3 December

1963 LITEMPO74 reported that one Gilberto LOPEZ, U. S. citizen who

looked suspicious

arrived in Mexico on 25 November 7965en22

This small point does not perhaps, mean much excopt

underline the stoppiness of the authors of the report in setting

down the facts:

---

## Page 23

13-00000

The evidence also establishes. that

there was confusion as ta whieh u.s.

conducting

the investigation in Mexico.

Although

the Ambassadar 470 high tovel govo ament officiate

in Washington beliaved that the PBI was conducting

the investigation in Mexico, the FBI position

was that, although the FBI would cooperate, only

the State department and elA have jurisdiction in

getting investigative results abroad'.

(Memoran-

-dum to A. Betmont, IT/2T/63.)

"Ironically, neither the Legat nor the Bureau

supervisor sent down to direct and coordinate the

the investigation' knew whether the state Department

or the CIA was

in fact investigating in Mexico.

[V.40; footnote no. 102.1

Comment: I don't believe this statement. The FBI had the

primary responsibility for the investigation in the United

States and because of the FBI position in Mexico, the Legal

..Attache conducted investigations there; however, he worked

closely with our Station relying upon us for matters which

clearly fell within our responsibility for foreign intelli-

gence.

The inference here is that there was confusion as

to the was running the show, thereby building the argument

that the FBI and CIA failed to do an adequate investigation

of the assassination.

I'' sure there may have been some slippage but

nothing sertous enough to cause a serious disagreement be-

tween CIA. and the FBI.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

"On the same day, a cable listing DDP

HELMS as the releasing officer was dispatened

to CIA stations in Europe and Canada.

This

cable otated that stationg ghould carefully

examine material obtained from a specified

sensitive and retiable source,

-because of

obvious significance of any scrap of informa-

tton which bears on (they assassination issue. "

The Desk Officer in charge of the CIA inves-

tigation was unaware that such a message had.

been sent out and was at the time unaware of

sensitive and reliable source mentioned.

Comment:

The cable in question is DIRECTOR 85133 written

R.T.WALSH, WE/SPO. WH shows on distribution, therefore,

"Desk Officer in charge of the CIA investigation" should

have seen it. He should also have been aware of the

specific source - "Because of obvious significance any scrap

information which bears on President's Assassination desire

addressee stations screen carefully all audio tapes since

22 November 1963 for comments and cable any significant infor-

mation so obtained."

---

## Page 25

13-00000

HAt noon on November 25, PE a Latin

American, appeared at the American Embassy

in Mexico City: 1351. He told Embassy per

sonnel that he was in the Cuban consulate

on Septenber, 17 and saw Cubans who discussed

Massassination pay Oswald a sum of money: He

later repeated his story to the GIA Mexico

Station Chief. "* [V.28]

Comments: a.

ALVARADO at no time appeared at the American

Embassy some of our own reporting is inaccurate According

to ALVARADO's Interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called

the Anerican Embassy on 25 November "and succeeded in speaking to

19-3240348

a high official with whom he made an appointment for that same day

doT the appointmone according to a note nathe Mexico

Station lose dated. 5- Novenber thes sawo men were SNIGHland

bothere embassy secu

tyrofficers

mee

108-N

Embassy

offfeers)

ALYARADO

aimed he

been

at

sulato on

the"

18th 9f Septembers

-not- the

the

fac

did he referito the date-17 September

Daring

the

Interroga

connection with the polygraph examination

On 6 December 1963

ALVARADO revealed he was

cavas "unsure of the day of week allegedly sav

OSWALD:

thinks that to was on tuesday which would have been t?

September."g

MEXL-7289 (IN 75588),

., 7 December 19631

c...

At no time did ALVARADO repeat his story to the

"CTA Mexico Station Chieft ALVARADO First told his story, as.

dicated above, on 25 November to two officers of the Embassy: Secu

rity Office. The next day, in the morning, he met with PLANECK

of the Embassy Security Office, and a Station

officer.

During the

meeting that he evening (26 November), ALVARADO was interrogated by

two officers from the Station.

"Note for the Record,

dated 25

November 1963, signed by PLAMBECK; Memorandum for Clark ANDERSON,

Legal Ättache, dated 29 November 1963, from Winston M. SCOTT:

---

## Page 26

13-00000

"After OSWALD's return to this country in June

t908, he was interviewed tutce by FBI agents;

on each occasion he repeatedly lied.

He also

refused to be polygraphed about his negative

answers to questions

of ties with soviet intel-

Ligence.

Yet the FBI closed the OSWALD security

case immediately after the second interurew.

The case was re-opened in March 1963, but OSWALD

was not interviewed by the FBI until August 10,

1963, when he requested an interview after his

arrest in New Orleans for disturbing the peroe.

In the occasion of this third interview, he again

repeatedly lied to IBI agents- A month later

OSWALD visited Mexico City, where he visited both

the Cuben and soviet diplomatic establishments,

and contacted a vice consul at the latter uho was

in fact a KGB agent."

(V. 1)

Comment:

"It is believed that the Soviet official with whom OSWAED

dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933.

In his letter of 9 November 1963 to the Soviet Consulate

in Hashington, OSNALD wrote about "his meetings with Comrade KOSTIN

[sic] of the Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexicol, There is no

offieial-of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico with a name resembling

"KOSTIN", other than Consul KOSTIKOV.

KOSTIKOV was the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There

is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV is a Soviet State

Security (KGB) officer, and the other four Consular officers were

also known of strongly suspected to be Soviet State Security

personnel serving under official cover.

It must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and

security officers placed abroad under official cover normally are

required to perform the routine and legitimate business demanded by.

the cover job in an embassy of consulate.

KOSTIKOV was first spotted as a KGB man because of his

travels around. Mexico, his_habitual association with known KGB

officers, and because consuls, in Soviet practice, are usually KGB

_men.

An intensive review of the files of our Mexico City Station

was undertaken immediately after the assassination to comb out any

previously unreported information about KOSTIKOV's activity. No use-

---

## Page 27

13-00000

-2 .

ful new information bearing upon the assassination resulted from

this effort.

A close observation was maintained on the Soviet personnel,

KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 November. Nothing unusual

or out-of-pattern was noted in the activity or movements of the

Soviet personnel.

From a memorandum, dated 31 January 1964, passed to J. Lee RANKIN

of the Warren Commission. See XAAZ-22594 (509-303)]

It is also possiblo that OSWALD may have spoken to one

other Soviet officor, Consul Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV. The following

remarks were attributed to YATSKOV in Mexico City, regarding Lee

Harvey OSWALD.

"I met OSWALD here. He stormed into my office

and wanted me to introduce and recommend him

to the

cubans.: He told me that he had lived in the UsSr.

I told him that I would have to check before I could

recommend him.

He was nervous and his hands trem-

bled, and he starmed out of my office.

I dan't

believe that a person as nervous as OSWALD, whose

hands trembled could have acourately fired a rifte."

Our Mexican Station chocked its rocords for the period OSWALD was

in Mexico City and advised it was quite possible that SHALD. thought

ho had talked with Valeriy KOSTIKOV when he actually had spoken to

YATSKOV, or that he first spoke to KOSTIKOV who turned him over to

his superior YATSKOV.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 2 July 1964, from Richard HELMS]

According to a memorandum dated 23 May 1975, "There is

no increment of credible evidence, applying this phrase strictly,

of soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence or security service

involvement in the assassination to what was developed and consi-

dered by the Warren Commission and its staff. The Commission's find-

ing that lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of President Kennedy and

Officer. TIPPIT and did them in alone and of his oun determination

stands.

"'Credible evidence' that would upset or significantly

modify this judgement did (and does) not exist in Washington. But

such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or Havana, whose votantary

inputs to the. Warren Commission were minimal in quatity and quality,

---

## Page 28

13-00000

designed to cover up any admissions of knowledge of, or connection

with, OSwALD which might be related directly or indirectly with the

assassination. Therefore, the belief that there was Soviet and/or

Cuban (KGB and/or DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and grow

until there has been a full disclosure by these governments of all

elementa of OSWALD's handling and stay in the soviet. Union and his

contacts in Mexico City. The Warren Commission report should have

left a wider window' for this contingency. That, indeed, was the

opinion at the working lavel, particularly in the counterintelligence

comparent in the CIA in 1960

As was indicated by 1p. HELMS in his =

testimony before the Harren Commission, CIA vould continuo to regard-

this aspost of the OswAld case as still open. (Investigation of the

Assassimation.of President John F. Kennedy. Headrings Before the

President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy

(Washington, 1964) , Vol. V., pp. 120-129. See especially p. 124 -

"Mr. HELMS: "Yes. I would assume the case could never be closed.'"

[Memorandum for DC/OBS, dated 23 May 1975 from Raymond G. Rocca;

Subject: Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file Re-

garding Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F.

KENNEDY Assassination.]

---

## Page 29

13-00000

"Shotrly after this meeting with AMLASH, CASTRO

issued a public warning reported prominently in

the U.S. press about United States' meeting with

cerTorists who wished to eliminate Cuban leaders,

He threatened that Cuba would answer in kind."

On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963, Fidel CASTRO ap-

peared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in Havana; even more un-

usual, CASTRO submitted to an informal interview by the Associated

Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER.

HARKER's interview reached New York on

Sunday, 8 Septem-

ber, and was in print throughout the country on Monday, 9 Septem-

ber. There can be no question from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his agreement

to the interview, that this event represented a mere that ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States.

CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of topics

but dealt prineipally with American political leadership, fi parti-

cular President KENNEDY, whom he excoriated in extraordinarily pro-

vocative fashion.

The interview also contained an uncomplimentary reference

to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing the limited nuclear

test ban.. There were differences in the replay by United States

newspapers like the New York Times and Washington papers, with a

result that CATSRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

=

In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided until the

middle of September 1963, the HARKER story appeared in the principal

morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday, 9. September, page I.

under a three-column headline: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says

Leaders Imperiled by Aid to Rebels". The story followed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) - Prime Minister Fidel CASTRO

said Saturday night: 'U.S. leaders would be in

danger if they helped in any attempt to do away

with leaders of Cuba'.

"'Bitterly denouncing what he called recent

U.S. prompted raids. on Cuban territory, Castro

said: -We are preapred to fight them and answer

in kind. U.S. leaders should think that if they

are aiding terrorist plans to eliminate Cuban

---

## Page 30

13-00000

..2 .

leaders. they themselves will not be safe'

World affairs ... seemed to be

entering

a more peaceful climate a few days

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

"''The Us, is always ready to negotiate

and. make promises which later it will not

This has happened to promises made

during the October crisis.

They have broken

as can be seen with new attacks.

''But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

crisis than October's ::.

The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, used

a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference to the warning

and threat which gave the interview its real significance. The

Washington Post did an abbreviated rewrite (9 September, page A-7)

which, similarly, omitted any reference to the main thrust of

GAStRO's remarks. The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed

the HARKER story nearly in its entirety in the second section of

the paper (9-September 1965, page B-4) and reworded the content of

the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the political aspects

In particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER elements and burying

CASTRO's warning to the United States leadership in the middle of

the piece.

There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY assassi-

nation that this CATSRO interview was considered in following up

leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission and its staff al-

though Mexico Station specifically directed Headquarters attention

to the Ap story very shortly after the Dallas killing. More impor

tant, the interview appears to have been forgotten in the contem-

porary political consideration of relations with CASIR's Cuba.

There is no evidence in the Agency records, either, that the Warren

Commission staff itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO-in-

torview in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no

ovidence in the files that anything along these lines was stated

by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

CASTRO's warning and threat of 7 September 1963 - if

OSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered of

-

great significance in the light of the pathological evolution of

---

## Page 31

13-00000

OSWALD's passive/aggressive make-up after his attempt to kill

General WALKER early in April 1963 and his identification with Fidel

CASTRO and the Cuban Revolution which is directly traceable as far

back as his Marine Corps service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP correspondent HARKER, irrespective

of whether there was any formal mandate, or even security service

contact with OSWALD. by the Cubans of the Russians - was an act of

singular irresponsibility and under no cireunstances was exeusable

as retorsion for what the Cuban emigres were doing during the

summer of 1963.

---

## Page 32

13-00000

"The Committee emphasizes that this Report's

discussion of investigative defieieneies and the

failure of American intelligence agencies to in-

form the Warren Commission of certain information

does not lead to the conclusion that there was a

conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

"Instead, this Report

• places particular

emphasis on the effect their Cuban operations

seemed to have on the investigation.

"The Report details these operations to illustrate

why they were relevant to the investigation.

the CIA operation involving a high-level Cuban of-

ficial, code-named AMLASH, is described in order

to illustrate why that operation, and its possible

ramifications, should have boen examined as part of

the assassination investigation."

(Yet, in the middle of building its argument, the Committee states

that "However, the Conmittee cautions that it has seen 1o evidence

that Fidel. CASTRO-or others ill the Caban government plotted Presi

dent Kennedy's assassimation in retailation for U. S. operations

against Cuba.)

---

## Page 33

13-00000

"The Committee did not attempt to duplicate the

work of the Warren Commission.

It did not review

the findings and conclusions of the Warren Commi-

ssion.

It did not re-examine the physical evi-

dence which the Warren Commission had."

IV.1}

Comment: This admission is astounding, particularly by a Senate

Committee reportedly investigating the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy. The remark is obviousty not quite correct, for

the Conmittee must have read the Report for they refer to it from

time to time; however, they probably did not read the supporting

documents:

---

## Page 34

13-00000

Piranhe

-13 •

(4) Identify and describe the records with regard to this

activity.

The material relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD (internal

Agency documents, reports to and from other government agencies

and departments, correspondence with the Warren Commission, etc.)

is held in the Agency's official file on OSWALD. The official

file. no. 201-289248 is held by the CI Staff and comprises 57

volumes, 'i.e., well over 200 separate file folders and envelopes.

In addition to the official file, there are ancillary files

covering various aspects of the investigation and later develop-

ments - FOIA requests for information, docuents (copies) cleared

for release in response to such requests, the Rockefeller Com-

mission, etc.

A machine index of the material held in the official file

reaches a total of 1829 deuments-or entries. There is some

duplication and onmissions. It is notl possible to tell from

the machine index the subject of many of the documents, particu-

larly cables, nor is it possible to ascertain the origin.of

many of the documents appearing under those entries marked

XAAZ-.

See the

attached list of files and folders reviewed to

---

## Page 35

13-00000

Components of Official File on Lee Harvey OSWALD

1. Vol. 1 Part 1, undated through 31.10.63

.2.

Vol. 1

Part 2, 1.11 - 25.11.63

3.

4.

Vol. 1

TX-1855, undated

Vol. 1

WX-7241, undated

5.

Vol. I

XAAZ - 35909, undated

6. . Vol.2

26.11.63

7. Vol. 2

TX-1891, 26:11.63

i8.

Vol. 3

Part 1, 27.11 - 28.11.63

9.

Vol. 3 Part. 2, 29.11 - 30.11.63

10. Vol. 3

Part 3, 1.12 - 2.12.63

:11. Vol: 3 DBA-63710, 30.11.63

12. Vol. 3

DBA-63711, 2.12.63

13. Vol. 4

14. Vol. 5

3.12.63

4.12 - 7.12.63

15. Vol. 5

XAAZ-35716, 8.12.63 Part 1

16.

Vol. 5

XAAZ-35716, 1.12.63 Part 2

:17.

Vol. 6

8.12 - 9.12.63

18. Vol: 6

DBA -16200, 8.12.63

19. Vol. 7

10.12.63

20.

Vol. 8

10.12.63

21. Vol. 8

DBB-11140, 10.12.63

22. Vol. 9

10.12.63

23.

Vol. 10 11.12 - 20.12.63

24. Vol. 10 XAAZ-27165, 20.12.63

25. Vol. 11

20.12.63

26. Vol. 12

20.12.63

27.

Vol: 13. 20.12.63

28.

Vol. 14

23.12.63

29.

Vol. 15

23.12.63

30. Vol. 16: 23.12.63

---

## Page 36

13-00000

2a1209

-2 -

31.

Vol. 16

32.

Vol. 17

33. Vol. 17

34. Vol: 18

35. Vol. 18

36. Vol. 19

DBB-15706, 23.12.63

23.12 - 31.12.63

XAAZ-35713, 31.12.63

1:1.64

DBB-11126, 1.1.64

2.1 - 6.1.64

37. Vol. 20

7.1.64

38. Vol. 21 7.1.64

39.

Vol. 22

7.1 - 22.1.64

40. Vol. 22 XAAZ-22407, 21.1.64

41.

•Vol: 23 22.1.64

42. Vol. 24

23.1 - 10.2.64

43. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22409, 25.1.64

44. Vol. 24 XAAZ 22409, 25.1.64

45. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22410, 25.1.64

46. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22411, 5.2.64

47; Vol. 24. XAAZ-22412, 5.2.64

48. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22413, 8.2.64

49. Vol. 24 XAAZ-35908, 2.64

•50. Vol. 25 11.2.64

51. Vol. 26

12.2 - 24.2.64

52.

Vol. 26

XAAZ 22408, 22.1.64

53.

Vol. 27

25.2.64 - 9.3.64

54.

5.

56.

Vol. 27 XAAZ-22414, 28.2.64

Vol. 27 XAAZ-22415, 28.2.64

Vol. 27

XAAZ- 22595, 6.3.64

57.

58.

59.

60.

Vol. 28

10.3.64

Vol: 29

10.3.64

Vol. 30

11.3 - 13.3.64

Vol. 31

26.3.64

---

## Page 37

13-00000

-3 -

61. Vol. 31 XAAZ-22450, 17.3.64

62. V01.32 25.3 -31.3.64

63. Vol: 32 XAAZ 22416, 26.3.645

64..V01. 33 1.4 - 7.4.64

:65. Vol. 33 XAAZ-22417, 6.4.64

:66. Vo1. 34. 8.4 - 20.4.64

:67. Vo1. 35 21.4 - 30.4.64

68. Vol. 35.

XAAZ-22418, 21.4.64

¡ 69.

Vol: 35 XAAZ-22419, 24.4.64

70.

Vol. 35 XAAZ-22420, 29.4.64

71. Vol. 36 1.5 - 11.5.64

72. Vol: 36 EX-10877, 5.5.64

73. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22421, 6.5.64

74. Vo1. 36 XAAZ-22422, 8.5.64

75.

Vol. 37. 12.5 - 18.5.64

76. Vol. 37 XAAZ-35714, 15.5.64

77.

Vol. 38

19.5 - 27.5.64

78.

Vol: 38

XAAZ- 35610, 21.5.64

79.

80.

Vol: 38

XAAZ - 35827,

20.5.64

Vol. 38

XAAZ-27210, 21.5.64

81.

• Vol. 39

28.5.64

82.

Vol: 40 28.5.64

83.

Vol. 41

28.5.64

84.

Vol. 42 28.5.64

85.

Vol. 43

29.5 - 1.7.64

86. Vol: 43 XAAZ-22423, 3.6.64

87. Vol. 44

2.7.64

88.

Vol: 45 2.7.64

89.

Vol. 46

3.7 = 11.8.64

90.

Vol. 46 XAAZ-22425, 22.7.64

•.... ......S.

---

## Page 38

13-00000

4 -

-91.- Vol. 46 XAAZ-22427, 31.7.64-

92.. Vol. 47 5.8.64

93. Vol. 48-6.8 - 31.8.64

94. V01. 48. XAAZ-22428, 7.8.64

95. Vol. 48 XAAZ-22429, 28.8.64

96.. Vol. 49_1.9 - 18.9.64

97• Vol: 49 XAAZ-22430, 9.9.64

98.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22431, 10.9.64

99. Vol. 49.

XAAZ- 22432, 10.9.64

100. Vol. 49 XAAZ-28433, 10.9.64

101.

_Vol. 49 XAAZ-22434, 10.9.64

102.

Vol.

_ 49 XAAZ-22435, 10.9.64

103. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22436, 10.9.64

104. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22437, 11.9.64

105. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22438, 11.9.64

106. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22439, 11.9.64

107. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22440, 11.9.64

108.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22441, 18.9.64

109.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22442, 18.9.64

110. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22443, 18.9.64

111. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22444, 18.9.64

112. Vol. 50 19.9.64

113. Vol. 51 21.9. - 25.11.64

i14. Vol. 51 XAAZ-22944, 22.10.64 [Press reaction to Warren

Commission Report]

I15. Vol. 52 2T.11 - 31.12.64

116. Vol. 52 XAAZ-22598, 25.11.64 ["Unidentified Individual"

incomplete]

117. Vol. 52 XAAZ-35722, 12.64 [Master List of Warren Commission

correspondence and exhibits] (Unclassified)

118. Vol. 52 XAAZ-35723, 12.64. [Warren Commission Log Book]

(Unclassified)

119. Vol. 53: 1.65 - 5.66

---

## Page 39

13-00000

-5 -

120. Vol. 53- XAAZ-22448, 5.5.65 [State Department file]

121. Vol. 53. XAAZ-22449, 5.5.65 [FBI Investigation Report and

-Exhibits]

122.

• Vol. 55 XAAZ-22451, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

Items -1-40]

123.

:Vo1. 53 - XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

-Items 41-181]

124.

Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Part 1 - duplicate]

125.

...Vol. 53_ XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Part 2 - duplicate]

126.

_Vol, 53 XAAZ-22453, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

_Items 182-187]-

127. _Vol. 53 XAAZ-22454, 5.5.65 [News clippings]

128• -

Vol. 53 XAAZ-22943, 23.3.65 [Part 1, News clippings]

129 . .

Vol. 53

XAAZ 22943, 23.3.65 [Part 2, News clippings]

130.

Vol. 53. XAAZ-27164, 2.2.65 (DDP's file on Warren Commis-

sion]

131.

Vol. 53 SX-24316, 2.8.65 [SE Division soft filel

132.

Vol. 54

5.66 - 4.67

133.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 1]

134.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 2]

135.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 3]

136.

.Vo1. 55 1.5.67 - 10.67

137: Vol. 55 XAAZ-22560, 10.7.67

138.

Vol. 55 XAAZ-35715, 19.5.67

139.

Vol. 56 1.11.67 - 30.12.71

140.

Vol.

56 TX-1942, 15.3.68

141.

Vol. 56. XAAZ-27163, 17.11.67

142.'

Vol. 57

1.1.72 -

---

## Page 40

13-00000

ADDITIONAL FILES:

Title

HTLINGUAL Memoranda SIG 568

HTLINGUAL (clippings, etc.)

OSWALD, SIG 568

CI Special Project

Record of Action - Warren Commission

SIG 950

DDP's File [Correspondence to and from

Warren Commission] (duplicate)

Rocca's files (pisanad)

NOSENKO handling

Dealings with Warren Commission

HOCH Letter

CASTRO Interview, 7 September 1963

Mexico Chrono Record

Unidentified Individual Report

Unnamed file

Rockefeller Commission; notes re-

garding Warren Commission

Mexico City Station Files

No. of vols.

2

1•

4.

1

1

1

1

1

2

1

1

6

Commission)

cl staft file (Rocca-Hautman)

3

Master File Released Documents (FOIA)

--Ist-series (released 2/3 1975)-

File (copies) of Released Documents

(FOIA)

Second Series

Released September 1976

10

---

## Page 41

13-00000

(1) What Collection requirements were issued. to the field with

regard to Kennedy's assassination? -

-4204709503

As soon ias the name of Lee OSWALD was mentioned in connection

with the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November. CIA

file checks were begun and the Mexico City Station-was asked by

cable for more information on OSWALD. Within a week. twenty-seven

cabled reports had been

sent to the White House, the Department of

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CIA field stations provided bits of information during the

wook attor to Brisination. The Mexico City station revzeved cho

transeripts of

a elephone tope and came at ree mone

ably involving OSWALD, but not actually mention

ing him by name.

hese transcripts connected him also to the Cuban

FS36233860222204-

Consulatesin Me

City Several Mexicans were arrested and

questioned about his activities, giving a good picture of what he

was really up to. A host of fabricators, some anonymous, bombarded

overseas embasstes with spurious tips on the case. All of these

leads were soon discredited, but they were still coming in.

Pa 5021

a gOt WALD detection to the Soviet Union where he

1502 22342523

had remained farost three years and has trtp to Mexico-cley

where he had contact with members of the Cuban and soviet Con

sulates, the possibility. that OSWALD had not geted upon his own

but may have been an agent in a plot under foreign diraction could

not be dismissed without exhaustive exploitation of all avaitable

foreign assets

As the Agency responsible for the collection of foreign coun-

terintelligence Information, It. was the Agency's responsibility

to support the Federal Bureau of Investigation In Its Investigation

of the President'S assassination by

.Obtaining detailed Information on every aspect of OSWALD's

activities and movements abroad;

b. Studying this information in light of the Agency's know-

ledge of the mission and operations of forgign intelligence

services - particularly the Cuban and Soviet services, and

cort do raine bust.

---

## Page 42

13-00000

c. Making available to the FBI and other appropriate govern:

23-M3

ment agencies and departments, all information obtained on

OSWALD or pertaining to his contacts with. Cuban and Soviet

officials and organizations abroad.

Set out below are those actions taken by the Agency after

learning the identity of the assassin and during the weeks immer

atoly following the President's death

Specific Action Taken by the Agency

on the same day as the assassination, 1l November 1903.

Deputy Director Phone, Pichard MBS, gent e cable book mease

tO A Sten a HIMS stated that the mergele

of President Kennedy requires all of us to look sharp for any un

usual intelligence. developments.

Although we have no reason. to

expect anything of a particular military nature, all hands shouta

be on the quick alert at least for the next few days while the new

President takes over. " (DIR 84608)

On 22 Novembet, the Chief of WH/3, in response to an earkier

baw.cer 6024a.271

cable from Mexico City in which the latter directed Headquarter

attention to previous traffic relating to Lee Harvey. OSWALD IMEX

7014 IN 66781) Li November 1963, asked the Station to forrow

1024505 0R2320

roport on Soyiet Embassy activity and reaction "during those hou

S704009a

(DIR 84802}

On 23 November, CI Staff requested the Mexico City Station

review äll audio tapes and transcripts since 27 September to locate

material possibly pertinent to OSWALD. [DIR 84886 in reference

MEXT -6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1963.1

On the sane day, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Station to

cable verbatim_transcripts in English of all OSWALD intercepts

and

other material relating to him.

.. (DIR 84914]

On 24 November, Chief, WH/3, asked the Mexico City Station's

opinion as to why OSWALD was in Mexico in September-October 1963•

[DIR. 84920]

On 25 November,

Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Station

---

## Page 43

13-00000

10

cable a summary of ail the Station's information relating to Silvia

DURAN (Mexican employee of the Cuban Consulate, Mexico City)

[DIR 84926]

On the same day; Chief, WH/3, asked the Mexico City Station

for any information indicating that OSWALD may have entered Mexiço

at any time other than during the period 26 September to 5 October

[DIR 84938}

Os 26 November 1963, Headquarters sent a priority cable te

Brussels, Copenhagen, Helsinki, London, Madrid, Os1o; Ottawa,

• "::"

Paris, Rome, and The Hague requesting station and liaison traces

Lee Harvey: OSWALD.

[DIR 85133]

Os 28 November 1963, Chief,

WH/3, stressed in a cable to the

Mexico City Station that "there should be no let down in your ef-

, fort er follow alf leads and investigate all facts which bear on

117.

this case., We have by no means excluded the possibility that

other as vet anknown persons may trave been involved or even chat

other powers may have played a role" Chief. WH/3 added the reques

"Please continue all your coverage of Seriet and Cuban installa-

¿ions and your Tatson with Mexicans." (DIR 856551

-03:

• Mr. On.

29 November, Headquarters forwarded a book cable to

Copenhagen, Helsinki, London, Osto, and The Hague, which included

---

## Page 44

13-00000

- 11 -

a synopsis for COS background briefings. to assist in the evalua-

tion of any operational leads generated by the investigation.

..[DIR 85817]

A second cable was

sent out on the same day to Frankfurt

and The Hague asking for evidence of travel of Lee OSWALD and his

Russian-born wife during their return to the United States during

May and June 1962. [DIR 85973]

On 2 December, headquarters sent a priority cable to Ber-

lin, Bonn, Frankfurt, and The Hague asking for confirmatory infor

mation relating to the travel of OSWALD, his wife, and oldest

child on their return from the Soviet Union (in 1962) to the

United States.

[DIR 86077] -

On 12 December 1963, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Sta-

tion to continue to watch for Soviet and Cuban reaction to the

investigation of the President's assassination, evidence of their

complicity, and signs that they were putting out propaganda about

_the case.. Mention was made that Soviet intelligence officers in

India had letters sent to American leaders demanding a full in-

vestigation of the assassination. [DIR 88680]

---

## Page 45

13-00000

- (2)

What. follow-up of these requirements was there during 1964?

(3) What form did the follow-up take?

The initial response to headquarters.

requirements. levied

on the field, after the assassination of the President, has been

treated under Question (1) above.

As this information

was received

in Headquarters it was compared with existing information, if any,

synthesized, analyzed, and then made available to the White House,

the Department Of State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Copies of these dessimentations were also forwarded to the Secret

A3G00652 202

samined all new leads sent in by the field, of

fering sut dancer

and, when necessary, coordinating with the appro

20:O44

S10N8227

priate United States government agency primarily the FBI - when -

46238182523

the Lavestigatione involved an American Citizen.

F730.

Most, if not all,

leads originating. In the fleld vere persons claiming to have know-

Tedse of OswALD of his wife. Investigation revealed that the

majority of these leads vere fabricators:

In light off the urgency of the investigation being conducted

2022329006*

by ne thout corondence between Agency Headquarters and 1t

field intes vas ta cable tom.

If necessary, messages could be

pessed by telephone.

10265

Sarati

Agency Field ter

ntatives in the Mexico City Station and

the Miami Base worked atosely with the local FBI representative

keeping the latter continually apprised of all information pertain-

ing to the Investigation as it became avalfable, sa cho seetion.

The Mexico Cily Station and Miami Base were able to respond immedi

ately to requirements levied by the local FBI representative.. The

field reported to Headquarters on all information passed in

the

field to the FBI-of received from the FBI representative so that

-Headquarters could make a formal dissemination to the appropriate

government agency or department in Washington.

---

## Page 46

13-00000

-14

(5)

What reporting was there from the field in

response to Head

guarters' requirements?

SECTION I:

Responses to the cables listed under Question (1) above are

given below under each cable.

DIR 84608, 22 November 1963

Response: On 23 November the London Station stated that Head-

quarters! alert had been passed to the British services - MI-5 and

MI-6. The latter service told our London Station it was alerting

Its fela statious. (LOND-6038 (IN 67061)]

Comments!

This response was the

onty one which

Spectreat y

2121233

0246424

made reference to DIR 84608; bowever,

the latter cable undoubted?

sparked Headquarters components. Headquarters personnel on TDY

83029%

abroad, and field units to react immediately. Examples are to be

found in a separate section to this question.

DIR 84886. 23 November: 1963

Respanse: Mexico City Stacion ser three cables ne 23 Novem

ber containing the texts of seven telephone calls belteved to be

relacive to OSWALD. (later it. was determined that two of the

telephone calls believed to have been made by OSWALD had been

made by some other unidentified person.) [MEXI-7023 (IN 67108) ,

MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), and MEXI 7033 (IN 67232) •]

DIR 81911, 23 November 1963

Response: The three cables cited above may be considered as

a response to this cable.:

DIR 84920, 24. November 1963

live

Response: The only/source of information on the reasons for

250094

OSWALD's trip to Mexico City was Silvia DURAN, a Mexican employee

in =4005366."

of the cuban Consotate, who was detained on 23 November and ques

Fioned by Mexican authorities from 23 ta 25 November.

Mexico City

station bad already alerted Headquarters to DURAN's arrest and had

farwarded infarmation in several cables, particularly MEXT-7046

funnie.

---

## Page 47

13-00000

:1•5

on 24 November: 1963.

• Mexico. City responded to DIR 84920 with

MEXI -7054. on 24 November 1963. This cable contained additions

or amendments to MEXI-7046. (In addition to information obtained

from Silvia DURAN contained in her file, see also the review of

selected items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file regarding allegations

of the cAstRo cuban involvement in the John f. Kennedy assassina-

tion, dated 23 May 1975.

DIR 84926, 25 November 1963

Response:

Mexico City Station cabled all Station held infor

maLLOR regarding SilVia DURAN In MEXI-7065•

DIR 84938, 25 November 1963

DIR 85133, 26 November 1963

35602

On 87 November, Hetsinki reported on OSWALD's presence in

4739953 7939133

1-2222222

Helsinki from 10 to 15 October 1959. [HELS-2399 (IN 68739)]

b On 27 November

Rome reported on sracion reaces finison

traces were to foilow..

-TROME-1233. (IN 68802)]

---

## Page 48

13-00000

16

15 -

c. On 27 November, Ottawa reported no traces in Station

or liaison files. [OTTA 1275 (IN 69005)]

d. On 27 November, Copenhagen forwarded a negative report.

[COPE 3469 (IN 69011)]

e. On 27 November, London Station reported that the "Traf-

fic Index" showed that OSWALD had arrived in Southampton on

October 1959; he left the following day by air for Helsinki.

[LOND 6097 (IN 69100)]

f. On 27 November, Ottawa Station sent a second cable con-

raining information on the initial reaction of the Cuban Ambassa-

dor CRUZ and his staff to the report of the assassination. - After

further information was received (by the Cubans) that OSWALD had

connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, there was some

apprehension concerning !ossible United States reaction.

GOTTA 1277 (IN 69233)]

g. On 27 November, Oslo Station cabled a response that

there were no traces on OSWALD in Station or liaison files.

[OSLO 4490 (IN 69290)]

h. On 28 NOvember, the Madrid Station replied that there

was no information in Station or liaison files. (MADR 9789 (IN

69328)]

i.

On 29 November, the Brussels Station stated there were

no traces on OSWALD. [BRUS 8739 (IN 69852)]

j.

On 29 November, the Rome Station reported no liaison

traces on OSWALD. (ROME 1258 (IN 70111)]

k. On 5 December, the Paris Station reported that Station

and liaison traces were negative.

[PARI 1770 (IN 74234)1

I. "On 10 December, the Paris Station reported that the

French press was giving sensational coverage to the possibility

that the assassination was "a many-angled plot". [PARI 1853 (IN

97148)]

BIR 85817,

29 November 1963

DIR 85973, 29 November 1963

---

## Page 49

13-00000

- 17- -

DIR 86077, 2 December 1963

On 4 December, the Bonn Base forwarded information regar

ding Marina OSWALD's entry into Germany at Helmstedt on 3 June 1962

She left Germany the same day at Bentheim. Marina OSWALD was tra-

veling on a west German visa no. 694/02, Issued by the West German

Embassy in Moscow

[BONN- 5579 (IN 73338)] (Copies of the doeuments

referring to Marina OSWALD were forvarded to Headquarters as

an at

tachment to EGNT-1400, 9 December: 1963.

b. On 6 December, the Munich Base cabled a negative reply.

[MUNI-8316 CIN 75065) 1. 3

On December, The Hague Station cabled information that

Marina) OSNALD entered the Netherlands on 3 June 1962 at the 01d-

interna

enzal border point (HAGU-5119 CIN 73378) 1

d. On December the Stutgart Base replied that the Base

had so confirmatory Information retating to OswAlD's travel. istut

5545 (IN- 76758H

SECTION II

In addition to specific action taken by the Agency as given

3300008 0 4

above, Headquarters, components, Headquarters personnel on TrY, and

field units reacyed ag shown below:

Bister

On orember Mesico Caty Station drested Hoadquarter

attention to previous traffic relating to lee Harvey OSWALD and

asked for a photograph of OSWALD in order to compare it with avail-

able photographs in the Station which might be of the assassin.

The

Station indicated that it was forwarding as soon as possible copies

of a photograph of the only visitor to the Soviet Embassy on 28 (sic

- 1] October who could (mightl by identical with OSWALD.

[MEXI-

7014 (IN 66781).]

A subsequent cable sent the same day from Mexico City indica-

ted that the Station had photographs of the same unidentified Ameri

can (referred to in the above cable) who is possibly OSWALD entering

the Cuban Embassy on 15 October. [MEXI-7019 (IN 66846)]

b.

On 22 November,

the Agency's Station in Miami

reported

---

## Page 50

13-00000

18.

that OSWALD of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee had participated in

a debate in August 1963 on the New Orleans radio station, WDSU:

OSWALD was a former Marine who had gone to Moscow in 1959 where he

renounced his American citizenship. [WAVE-8049 (IN 66782)]

C. On 23 November, the Chief, SR/CI forwarded a memorandur

to the Assistant Deputy Director, Plans, in which the latter's atten

2794758

tion was drawn to the fact that OSWALD had been in contact.

-оп 28

September 1963 wich Soviet Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

According to current information available to SR/CI, KOSTIKOV was a

known: KGB officer and considred to be a member of the KGB's Thir

(sabotage and assassination) :

teenth Department/of the First Chief Directorate.

According to the

ral ilalson off core the fBi had reason to belleve.

that oswalD's

visit was to get Sovlet support for a United States passport or visa

matter Chief, SR/CT closed by saying that he had reported OSWALD'S

connections with known ember of the Thirteenth Department to the

scram to as wer

FBI 11atson officer at 1030 hours on 23 November: 1903.

Memorandum For ADDP, 23 November 1963 (file no. SX-25550)1

gon 2s Novembez, che Mecico dily station torvarded ta Head

quarters the names:

Fof three persons who had flown from Mexico to the

United States during the first twelve days of November, who might

have been identical vith lee Harvey OSNALD.

[MEXI -7020 (IN 66891 1

On 24 November, the Mexico City Station reported to Head-

quarters that the United States Consulate in Nuevo Laredo had

infor

mation that OSWALD had entered Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on 26 Septem-

ber traveling on Mexican Tourist Card no. 24085 and had left Mexico

by auto Isic] on 3 October 1963 at Nuevo Laredo. MEXL-7040_(IN

67261)1 4

t. On 24 November, the Chief, SR/CI; forwarded a memorandum

to the Asistan Depauty rectora Plans can which he quoted a cable

C02-94000066807-5656

sent by Chief, SR. Diviston, who was, at that tine, in Frankfurt.

36092638S AGeS CAP

The latter asked the question if OSWALD was not unwittingly of

wittingly a part of a plot to murder the president in Dallas as

57428242

-3527

attempt to exacerbate further sectional strife and render the

States Government less capable of dealing with soviet intutarives

---

## Page 51

13-00000

-÷19°

over the next year. The Chief of SR continued-by suggesting that

if AELADLE's.. (Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN) views on (Harold)

WILSON and the information noted in paragraph Ic below have any

substance (and they cannot be ignored), this suggests that we can

expect major Soviet pressures over the next several months, for

which the soviets have made careful, lon-range preparations.

-Paragraph la:

Within minutes of the first news, Mascow radio

statements as heard in London attributed the assass

right-wing elements'. Only as the true iden

tity of the believed assassin became known did Moscow

begin

to complain that United States reactionaries

Were using OSWALD, as a pawn."

Paragraph 1b:

Should not, the assignment of 13th Department orficers

to the KGB Residency in the United Natious in New York

Do considored in a new light?"

Paragraph 1a:

SiT discovered From Arena MARTIN- MESS) during our

7. 2227

long and exceptionally valuable discussions, that

one of Harold WILSON's principal scientific advisers

Is Captain Ian MAXWELL, who has a long Soviet intelli

gence background.

This may shed new light on AELADLE's

report, 1.e., that Harold WILSON may

be a Soviet agent:

Chief, SR/CL, pointed out that the SR Chief's

comments come

without beneftt of traces passed earlier to the ADDP Sowing that

OSWALD had contact with a 13th Department representative in Mexico-

City Chief, Sk/CI, ended by indicating that another recently ar:

rived cable suggests that OSWALD's business with the Soviet Consul

was connected with his own visa to the USSR and Cuba and may,

therefore, have been innocent: (Memorandum for ADDP

24 November 1963 (File no. SX-25598)]

g. On 24 November, the Agency's Station-in Miami reported

information received from the local FBI representative. The latter

---

## Page 52

13-00000

had received a request from his Headquarters to ascertain the vera

city, including sources, of a statement made by DRE leader, Jose

LLANUSA Gobel, to the effect that Fidel CASTRO had threatened lives

•млілі!""

of United States leaders in the event of United States aggression

against Cuba. LLANUSA attributed the above threats to Fidel CASTRO

who made these remarks during a reception in early September 1963

at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. [WAVE-8133 (IN 67394)]

Eh.. On 25 November 1963, the Mexico City Station also called

Headquarters! attention to an AP story datelined Havana, 7 September

1963.

At a reception held

at the Brazilian: Embassy, CASTRO IS

quoted as haveing cald me are prepared to fight them and answer

in kind. United States leaders shouldthink (sic- consider ?] that

if they are aiding terrorists plans to eleminate the Cüban leaders

Care?

they themselves will not be sate:" (MEXT-7055 IN 67620)T

---

