# 104-10062-10134

## Page 1

1104-10062-1013

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

15 May 1972

MEMORANDUN OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECI

Meeting with fiel Hendrix, li may 1972

1. Hal Hendrix called my home on 10 May, saying that he war

in Washington and wished to see me. Arrangemers were later made lo

mect him in downtown Washingion at a street corner at 8:00 am on

11 May. I picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile

we had breakfast at the Marriot Much in Rosslyn, ater which i drove

him lo the airport so he could caich the 10:30 a.m. plane to New York.

2.

Isendrix had a number of poirts to convey, but none of them.

were of such importance foi him to have made a trip to Washington

just to soc inc.. Therefore, his euplumation seems plausible that he war

in Washingion basically to see jerry Homifin of the 2ima/Liic bureau

to discuss a lead on who might have leatod it docunents to Inck Andercon

Hendrix explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffen"

named Enu Goodfriend that the person who furnished tie I'fi documenta

to Jaci: Anderson was Irving Davidion, an ola fiend of Anderson tho come

years ago had once set anide a dosk in his office for Anderion lo use on

occasion, Goodfriood said that the picture of Dita Beard with & nuinber

of her Warhingion contacts published carly in the Il I scandal days had

included Dividson somewhere in the group. Davidson is deseribed as

Lobbyict for Die or more Latin American Covernments as well as or

Isracl. Hannilin is considered a very knowledgeeble and trusied friend

by Hendris who wanted Hannifin's opinion whother Davidson might in

fact lie a scurce di Andereon's.

Hannifin'e initial impression was

that this wan a scmote possibility, but he said he would chock around ard

try and talk to Davidson himself lo see whether he could get a rise on

the question of 11X. Mendiis said he coine away from the mocting wits

Fannifin probly well convinced that the load to Daricion as the source on

IT'l documents was probably not a gooil one.

#4425

---

## Page 2

14-00000

=2=

3. Hendrix commented to no that the general fealing in ty.

in that there may be two penciratione in the Wachingion office, too in

the N.Y. office, and one in their Clovelend office.

Fe did not claborate.

k Hendri made the following comments about the ITT / Chile

documents:

A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he

dercribed as a senior Vicc Prosident and a hit of a fuddy-duddy

who enjoys Harold Gereon's confidence, had firet scen John: McCone

and then come to Washington recozily to tall with Agency reposental

about the ITT/Chile docunents. 'Ons proposei lat Brittenham liar

thought of discusing with the Agency was that sevoral sensitive

documento be turned ovor to the Agenoy for tafckeeping. Fe did

not soem to know whothes this had actually been discussed hy

Britienhers with the Agency.

lendris acid that Crittenaam had

diccuscod with the Agency what lIt might gay in the Serate

¿sarings, whet the Agency might say, die. I did noi acknowledge

having known diat Driterbore mes with ageaty soproconutives,

saying that this was presumably a 7t floor matter.

He might not

have bolieved ino, bué i thought it betier not lo confirin les fact

to ling that i contact had in fact laken place cince ho apparently

did not talk to tritionhan himsels about this. l

B. Enu Schaier, the lawyer of the firm in Washiagion

retained by ITT as counscl for the expected Sonate hearings on

Chilcan activitics of ITI, has told ITI officials that he thinks

the timing and intensily of the Senate sub-committee interest in

the Chileau activities of ITT vill depend on the goneral political

rituation in the U.S., particularly in Viat Nan. Schafer has boei

in touch with Pat itolt, the sub-committee aide.

C.

None of the IT T documoris oi: Chile here beca turned

over jet to the Senate sub-committee, The documents are still

being worked on by lI'T. Whon prescod at to tie quantity involved,

Honiris said the lotel is about 500 documents.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

= 3 -

D. The thiee documents licndris mentioned to me at or

last coting as boing incriminating from the point of viour of

documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not

been destroyed. IIT's chief lawyer in N.X. has told Hendri:

that while away on a trip recently, at loast four young lawycrs

in his oftico road these documents. He tried to transfex onc

of the lawyers out of his office, and the man tarcatened to blo

the whistle on ITT over these documunts if transcried. One

oi tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about tbesc

documents. As a resuli, the documento cannot be destroyed.

It is not clear, however, whether III plans to turn thess three

documents over to the Senate. Evidencally ITI had first hoped

to lurn these documents over to the Agency for safekcening in

preference to turning them over to the Senate.

E. It has been dctermined by IT I lawyers that biocking

out proper names in decurnanis bolore they tuin the documanis

over to the Seriste sub-comitice is permissable. The IT'T

lavyors are now going oves all 500 documenia to do iis, concentrai

on the names of Chileans.

If they finally turn over the three

sensitive documents to the committee, names of persona, tarls,

and Anding mechanisms will be deloted, but the basic purpose of

ITT funding Alessandri canno: be hidden.

I. In discussing these three documats, Hendrix said

that the man in N.X. to whom IlT was to bave paid the money for

Alessandri was (inu) Orchard, a Chilean employed by UN Secretaria

(rather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN,. The comp:

through which the payments were to be made was the Lone Slai

Shipping Compasy. (This agrees with information in the files).

I acked whether the Swiss Bank account numoor for other trans-

actions was also lister thore, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said

that no Swise Bank account was involved. When I pocased and

naid my understanding wes that carlici lie had told me money fox:

the Edwards group west through a Swies account, he merely.

said there wore no celerences to thot in these thiee documentr.

Ic thon said one of the three cocumenis wre unfortunately a

mescage fram Gerrity authorizing thei the Alessandri movemene be

Eiven "half the sum recommended by liendris."

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CT

5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berreller en 8 or 10 Niay at

which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with EÚBRiC-2

in Buenos nires.

This was the firat time that they had mei since their

carly April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez told FUBRIC-? that he had not

been able to mako the deposit on the secoud 5100, 000 fos reasons Hendrix

had explained earlier to ma. RubriG-? was concerned by this and asked

that IT'I do everything possible to resume these payments since he had .

money troubles. (Berrellez romersed, however, del EUPRIG-? seemed

in very good spiris porsonaliy, and quito optimistic about the chences

of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to reopen tht question of resuming

payments to the Edwards

people in Chile when he gets back to N.X. and

sees Gerrity.

6. The U.S. manager of the ITT telephone manufacturing plant

in Chile slipped up to the States a ow days ago and roported that he

thought the government would be moving in on the lt't property very

500n.

He lad already been authorized by the company lo send his

furniture up, ITT is aleo aoking Benjamin Holmes lo come up to the

U.5, foi a visit. I reirarked that my recollection was that Holmes

was on rather good porsonal contact with P'resident Salvador Allende,

and Jose Toj, but Hendrix cominented that even Holmes was noir under

suspicion by the Government of Chile.

7. Hondrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the

Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had

left his position at OPIC and is now the president of 2 book seller's

association according to a press item which appeared within the last

two wecks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew

anything about it which I said I did not.

8. No had a rather intercating explaration of the by-play in

Chile on tuining the ITT nationalisation question over lo the Congiers to

dociúc.

Bcoreller reports that thore has boen a delay in Allende's

proponal that Congress handle the ITI nationalization because of

disagreement on how to procced, the fear of some hard-liners was

thai the government was not being lough chough on ITi. Allende's intent

apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress world be forced to

reject Miereby giving the Prosidoni a chance io call à plebiscite on ihe

issile wich, beingaboutlIt, he could not possibly lose. An interesting

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

-5-

?. The daughter of Hendrix is engaged to Lewis ("Ton")

Constontine, who is applying for a job with the agency. He las passed

certain crams and was to have an interview in Washingion on ll lay

followed by a physical exem shortly afterwards. A hitch has developaà

originally considered le some sort of a it in be prote

who returned to the job so thai instead he is being offered a 2-3 yeas

contract, probably to go lo laos. He is not sare of the careci apportunity

a contraci status would give him, and it tom boimeon this situation aud

some offer now bring made by IRS. He has long wanied a job with the

Agency. (Fendrix claimo that Constantine in not aware that his ficticce

once worked for the Asency and that the lias tuck to hor cover story as)

L1zr aB employment gods Hendriz made a big point of thic.) i said it

would be possible to check what the situation was and to find out what the

agency's intentions wore toward this person, but tat i could not adoci

in any way the decision of hiring, or unêcr what conditions. Hendri

was cardind it all tinos not to aot for spocial treatment, but salier ho

esperosed a slighe decree de concarn er to the apparent change in jnb

• offers. I replied that as far as 1 vaa awers, uny person ho was hizod

on a contrici basie who proved himselí to be of exceptionally lich

capability could end up as a career employee with ua, but it world deper

on employrnent ceilings, etc. at the time such a switch was actively

considered.

ie reemed satisficd with this answer. I acid I would check

and let hirn know if there were any unsual circumstances in this case.

My impression is that Hendrix is not overly fond of this follow, but

respecis him and would noi try to, interfere on his bchale either way..

Jonathan G. Hanke

C/WHI/CA

---

