# 104-10326-10077

## Page 1

1704-10326-10077

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHENO

95-1311426

SENSIND :

SECRET

RYBAT®

SECRET

PAGE :

1

FRP :

STAFF

CONF : CE/W/ MB

CE/W, CE/W/IS

INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,

FILE,

(4/P)

95 1311426

ASP

PAGE 001

TOT:

0922047 AUG 95

DIRECTOR 398108

SECRET

STAFF

TO:

PRIORITY

092204Z DIRECTOR 398108

FROM: LIMIT C/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W/IS, C/CE/W

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT GTDANCER

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR GUIDANCE

REE:

14072 95 1207999

TEXT:

ACTION REQUIRED:

INFORMATION BELOW PROVIDED AS

BACKGROUND FOR DISCUSSIONS WITH THE AMBASSADOR

WE RESEARCHED THE JYVAROROUSS PROMISE TO DELIVER FILES ON

*<LEE HARVEY OSWALD. > WHILE NOT MUCH ON THIS SUBJECT IS REFLECTED IN

THE FILES,

WE DID COME UP WITH INFORMATION WHICH INDICATES THAT

THAT MATTER WAS TURNED OVER TO THESFBI FOR ACTION! THE ORIGINAL

OFFER WAS MADE BY SJIVAPOROUS/1

(V/I TO FORMER

JIN MAY 92. IN

OCTOBER 1992,

FOR FOLLOW-UP DISCUSSIONS

WITH V/1 RE THIS AND OTHER SUBJECTS.

THE FOLLOWING IS TAKEN

DIRECTLY FROM

THE TRIP REPORT

"WE OPENED THE DISCUSSIONS WITH THE TOPIC OF THE<LEE HARVEY>

* <OSWALD>FILES;

_TELLING W/I THE EBI IS PREPARING A LETTER TO PRIMES

MINISTER KEBICH,

CREAT RAN AKING RANTS ON TO SEE THE FUSE CE

TO MAKE PUBLIC ALL MATERIAL PERTAINING TO ITS OWN INVESTIGATION OF

*THE < KENNEDY ASSASSINATION> (THE WARREN REPORT), WHY SHOULD HE BE

PRESSURED INTO SURRENDERING HIS FILE. WE SAID NO PRESSURE ISL

INVOLVED: WE ARE ONLY FOLLOWING UP ON HIS OFFER. (STILI, DEFENSIVES

HE STATED HE WOULD NOT ALLOW ACCESS TO THE RAW FILE, WHICH WOULD

EXPOSE SOURCES AND METHODS USED TO SURVEIL AND INVESTIGATE OSWALD

IN MINSK!

INSTEAD SUMMARIES CONTAINING THE RESULTS OF

THE INVESTIGATION AND SURVEILLANCE,

WHICH OSTENSIBLY WERE PREPARED

AT THE TIME OF OSWALD'S STAY IN MINSO

HE WOULD ALLOW OUR

"EXPERTS" (PRESUMABLY USG) TO EXAMINE THE DOCUMENTS CLOSELY AND TO

CONFIRM THEIR AUTHENTICITY AND COMPLETENESS. HE HINTED THAT WE

(AINBOLTAN REPRESENTATIVES) MIGHT BE ALLOWED IO LOOK A BII INTO THE

RAW FILE.

ZWE SAID WE WOULD RELAY THIS TO OUR SUPERIORS,,

EXPLAINED AGAIN THAT,

DUE TO THE SENSITIVITY AMONG SOME AMERICANS /

*STEMMING FROM THEIR DISTRUST OF NWBOLTAN VIS A VIS THE<KENNEDY>

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

95-1311426

SENSIND :

RYBAT

LE WAS LOT ATE LATER, PAY HATE THE FREER US

AUTHORITIES (THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT)

-3._ JV/1. THEN TOLD OUR C/O THAT THE FBI'S LETTER SHOULD BE

SENT TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SUPREME SOVIET VICE THE PRIME MINISTER

AND WE AGREED TO SO INFORM THE FBI.

THAT MEMO IS THE LAST

INFORMATION WE HAVE ON THE MATTER.

THERE IS NOTHING TO INDICATE

THAT THE FBI DID INDEED SEND THE LETTER OR, IF IT WAS SENT, THAT

THEY RECEIVED A REPLY TO IT.

BECAUSE IT WAS PREVIOUSLY DETERMINED

THAT THE FBI HAD PRIMACY IN THIS MATTER, IT IS OUR DETERMINATION

THAT WE SHOULD NOT REQUERY JYVAPOROUS.

WE HAVE ASKED OUR REP AT®

THE FBI TO CHECK (INFORMALLY) AS TO THE STATUS OF THEIR DIALOGUE

WITH THE JYVAPOROUS AND WILL LET YOU KNOW AS SOON AS WE RECEIVE

THE ANSWER.

PLEASE ASSURE THE AMBASSADOR THAT HE WOULD LIKE US TO

PURSUE THIS MATTER WITH THE FBI THROUGH OUR CHANNELS, WE WILL BE

GLAD TO DO SO. REGARDS.

NONE. INDEX: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>

REINO: E221787

ORIG:

C/CE/W/MB (DOWDON, 73516) : AUTH:_ CE/W (FREIMANN) :. REL:

CE/W (WEBER). CE BY 5202925

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE :

2

it's math

SECRET

---

