# 104-10187-10153

## Page 1

104-10187-10153

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

• =

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CIASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

s'e

ROUlING

TIT

21.

10

/ DIRECTOR

ACTION, C/u:/ 5

SEORET I923DOZ

VIR CITE SALV 5205

INDICATOR

19620455452

•*F DIR 37138

SAY 5206 (11 455353)

1. AS REPORTED SALV 5171,

it

BUT FELT

• UNAPPROACHNDLE. AT MEETING WITH

asset

1110 NUE, SMEARS VAS AGAIN ASKED RE

• VULDERABILITY.

REDGED,

Tans.

:.ÜIIIG A CAREFULLY TAILORED PIICH HIGHT WORK EVEN THOUGH SANS

APp-

: CED TO CE CONVINCED COTIE.

CLACEUNS TOLD TO THINK ABOUT POSSIBLE

"INGELS OF APPROACH BUT TO TAKE NO ACTION THIS RESPECT.

FYI,

wran La

Para

1 ITTING OF

SNAPINFO R

AND

ASSURES OUR INTEREST DUE FACT.

A TOP COIE STUDENT LEADER.

2.

asser

IDENTITY LATER LD DES THATES

ESTEFUSED TO WORX FOR

INL OFFICICES

PET SAINT USHD NOCK FOR CASSES CH CONDITION THAT

SECRET

PERO TENONE 10 POTLE TORN THE POSURES OTICE IS IROIUSITED

Copy to.

AGREED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

0155150: 0:19

SCRET

----

O A TASHI. HE SAID BROTHER, A

•EDICAL DOCTOR, IS CURATLY 1U PEN C A PERUVIAN SCHOLOREHER, AFTER

KING BES 87EK

ESCHOLATSUP. SCO MEHT: SINTICH FILES

RECLECT THAT ENER

83 ROTHER,

# IS A MEDICAL

20010л.

NOREVER, VE WADLE CONFIRE MISTHER HE CURRENTLY IN PERUS.

SAID HE WOULD ALSO EXPECT A SILARY FROM

, EUT DID NOT

"NUT IT DIRECTLY FROiL HANDLER DUE FEAR OF BEING PHOTOGRAPSED RECEIVING

HOMEY FROM AlL

3.

CLAIMS IDENTITY,

COMPLETELY TRUSTUORTHY AND

IS CURRENTLY BEING USED BY

AI!D

FOR DILICATE INVESTIGATIONS. HOWEVER,

S ADMITTED THAT IDEN-

TITY UNS SUSEDED FACI BAR LAST YEAR AFTER ONE DE HIS VITRESSES COU-

LITED PERJURY DURING A HURDER TRIA.

ESSA DITTTY THUS PERSONALY IDENTED TO MTH. STATICH SILES NEGATIVE

MACULTURN. OFFICER, THO KNOUS HIM, NOPRAISES

• ALTHO SOMETHAT FLIGHTY.

a racises

PRECIPITALE NCTION, STATION FEELS THAT

PIÏCH GHOULD BE SOILCUED UP. TO MINTHIZE RISK IN CASE THIS A PROVO-

CITIC BY

A UP RECONNEND THAT HIS SEND IN SPANISH SPEAKING CASE

TIGER FROG OTHER MIEA. NESTING COULD BE ARRANGED BY IDENTITY.

IF MIS AGHERE, MARIESE POA DE REPERITED CH IDENTITY.

5.

novisa

SECR

• 1:

---

