# 104-10169-10261

## Page 1

104-10169-10261)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

38 MAR 61 21137

пно 8

BELL 15

COP, ADOP/A, DPON, IM 3, OC 6, BELL S/C

OPCRATISNAL IMEDIATE

dis 1018

OPIN BELL INTO OFIN MADD BUAS CITE VAVE 3099--

JAZIP ANDIPS

PET A. GAVE 5999 (,N,202)

B. VAVI 1989N, 00124

C. VIVE 3810 (1N0 672)

1.. THE FOLLOWING MSE VAS RECEIVED VIA ANDIP/S COMAGE "NUMBER

¿S JANDI: SITUATION "CORAZON DE LEON" DESPERATE. URSE AIR DROPS.

WITH HIM 980 MEN. THEY MAINTAIN SAME MARKS IN THE SAME PLACE.

UNTIL NOW NOTHING HAS BEEN RECEIVED. MORENO:

04. 20 AMDIP/S STATES THAT "CORAZON DE LEON" IS THE VAR NAHE OF

[ALFONSO GUEVARA FOURNIER, THIS IS THE SAME GROUP FOR WHOM A/S

REQUESTED AND AIR DROP ON 27 FEB PER PARA A REF A. ASSUMING

THAI GUEVARA HAS ONLY HALE THE NUMBER MEN HE SAYS HE HAS THIS IS

A SIZEABLE INSURGENT FORGÄ FOR ORIENTE IF IT CAN BE SUPPLIED AND

DIRECTED SECURELY.

A SIMILAR MSO TO AIS URGENTLY REQUESTING AN AIR DROP :ÓN

[GUEVARA VAS JUST RECEIVED FROM AMICE-1B. VILL FORWARD BY SEPARATE

CABLE.

A. REZAINZING THE DANGER OF USING AIS COMMO TÜ ARRANGI EN

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER SHAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMINTED.

Copy No.

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

AIR DROP, NAVE EELIEVES THE RISX IS JUSIFISO IN VIEN TIRE ELEMENT.

AND IMPENDING OPNS WHOSE SUCCISS VILL DEPEND UPON IHI ACTIVE

PARTICIPATION OF AS MANY ARMED INSURGENT GROUPS'AS POSSIBLE TO

DISRUPT POSSIBLE GOC COUNTER ACTION. BELIEVE RISX VILL BE

MINIMIZED USING A/S COMMO OR IMHOPE IN THAT ME VILL ONLY MENTION

DATE OF DROP AND VAR NAME GUEVARA AS DETAILS ARE SAME AS DROP

REQUESTED PER PARA A REF A.. ASSUMINO THAT GOC WILL INTERCEPT

AS AIR DROP MS& ALL THEY VILL XHON IS THAI SOME TYPE OF OPN WILL'

TAXI PLACE ON A PARTICULAR DATE TO CORAZON DE LEON. VAVE WILL MAVE

HIM CLEAR HIS MSO PRIOR TO TRANSMISSION AS ADDITIONAL CHECH.

NS HAS ALREADY TOLD "CORAZON DE LEON VIA SMHOPE THAT "HE VILL

GIVE HIM AID NOT TO WORRY.

So: WAVE SUGGESTS AN INITIAL DROP OF JOD MAN PACK PER PARA A,

REF NO IS THIS SUCCESSFUL VILL ARRANGE ADDITIONAL SUPPORT THROUGH

OTHER XUBARX RADOPS EXPECTED BE AVAILABLE NEAR FUTURE.

6. DZ LOCATED SHEET 5276 ROMAN II, "IMIAS, " GRID COORDS

153267. LIGHTS SIGS VILL BE FIVE BONFIRES, FIVE METERS APART,

ACROSS THE WIND TO BE LIGHTED FROM MED TO BOJA NOURS LST ON THE

APPOINIED DAY, A/S STATES MUST HAVE FIVE DAYS NOTICE BEFORE

DATE OF DROP: FIVE DAYS NOTICE MAY NOTHBE NECESSARY IF HAGHAM

PASSES MSS TO [GUEVARA GROUP.

IT USE OF AIS COMMO CONSIDERED TOO INSECURE AND TIME WILL

ALLON, SUGGEST ATTEMPT ARRANGE SUPPORT FOR GUEVARA GROUP VIA

WAGHAM, RADOP FOR DRE GROUP, LOCATED IN SIERRA MAISTRA. MSE

SHOULD BE FASSED TO VAGHAM OPIM TO DETERYINE FOLLOMINGI

VAGHAN '& LOCATION

ALPAOQUETION BY OTHER THAN ISSUINi. OFFICE 19 PROMICITE

21BA

---

## Page 3

14-00000

K115.5099

O4 BO DOES MI XHON OR CAN DETERMINE VHEREABOUTS AND SIZE OS

[QUEVARA GROUP

CO VILL THI TVO GROUPS COOPIRATE VITH LACH OTHER:

DO CAN VAGHAN SEGURELY -MAXE CONTAGI VITH GUÉVARAJAND PASS

HIM A USE

IO HOY MUCH TIME VILL IT TAXE DELIVER A USA TO GUEVARA,:

SO SINCE DRI BROUP VHICH AIS CLAINS PRESENTLY COOPERATINE IN

HAVA BELIEVE THEY VILL VORX TOGETHER IN ORIENTE.

SO AS STATLS HE STILL PLANNINO SA TON SEA DROP PER RIS G.

RECEPTION GROUP VILL BE [GUEVARÃ. MONEVER, UNLESS THEY CAN SET

AN AIR DROP OF ARMS PRIOR TO THI TIME OF THE SEA DROP THEY VILL

NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT ARMED MEN TO SEAL OFT THE BEACH VHERI THE

ARMS VILL BE BROUGHT ASHORE.

• 1B. PLS ADVISE SOONEST.

END 'S' MESSAGE

JEGET

REPROQUET ICH BY OTHER TINA ISSUING OFFICE 19 PROMIBITED

PETRIE

4/BR

---

