# 104-10182-10106

## Page 1

4.06000 105:

104-10182-10106

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 ..

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducio

059

DATE • 21 AUG 62

• DIRECTOR

PROM, GLATOULA CITY

ACTION IN 8

29/22 AUG 62/Á.

ADOCO:

TEWS (ACTION)

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

SE SECRET

Dial

AU6 22 0536Z 62

¿ ROUTINE

149388

LIP WAYS WAiL SALV CITE SUGT 2425

L. HER DELL ARRIVED CUAT PRO SANS AT 2139 23 ALGO ICCOHPNITED

' D LUCY LUCHIEI. TRAVELLED IN FLAT SCNVERTINLE BELGIGIG LUCHIS

VEZ BELL AND SHITH AT MAYA EXCELSICE HOTEL, NO STATICI TANGES S::

LUCHIEN.

• 2. RE REE PARA 2C, MARIO GARCIA CONLY IN SANE MACHE CALL TCLO

SAITH YOU HAVE INSTRUCTICHS TO LAGE; NE ANE GOING TO LAGE A SAGING.

THE GEHERAL IAS BEEN DISPOSED TO COCOAATE, TO MARE A JOLIT PNG-

CLANATION• HE WILL BE TRÄVELLING TESDAY, WEN HE HAS THE LEORRATIC:

I AM CCING TO SEND HI. CALL LAS MOE AT 1G93 O 1O AC.

Shi CHi E 2A 25

:

SECRET

REPROOUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1.57

Lapy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINO

DATE

TO

ACTION

PAGE 2

GUAT 2426 IN 49338

GO TO THE INTER-CONTINENTAL NOTEL dU SEE SALVADOR".

HADY SAID.

"THE COAT WILL ARRIVE IN THREE HOURS. DON'T WORRS. SEND ALL THE

LESSACES DU ALL AMERICA CABLES*. CALL jADE HORNING 23 AUG.

¡O SOURCE PARA 1 UGA MAYA, SOURCE PARAS 2, AND 3 ESCRID-1 FION: :

(EgATED-S TRON fOEFICIAL POLiCE REPORT.

ENO OF MESSAGE

G/S COMMENTS •CONCERNEO PHONE: CALLS MADE BY SMITH.

1.58

GRUS 1

Excited this racet

SECRET

Missin

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy No.

3100

---

