# 104-10218-10035

## Page 1

104-10218-10035

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEGRET CAPON

PROJECT OUTLINE

CRYPTONYM

STATION - Mexico City

FIELO CASE OfFICER reland Sure

CHIEF OF STATIO

Sheard (Curtis

Willard C. CURTIS

FORMERESS DY SPLIT TRAIOMASSION

NO FIELD ESSENTATION.

CS COPY

SENSE SOON

510E OF ATT."It itin A - 26353

50-124-2811

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SIGNET

PROJECT OUTLINE

1.:

1. Identification

• Mexico City, Mexico.

Support for singleton

contract agent

operating into right-wing political milieu in Mexico for

intelligence purposes with

some covert action by-product.

2. Objectives

Objective The objective of this project is to provide

support for a U.S. contract agent who has access to a wide variety

of right-wing political elements and organizations in Mexico.

b.

Conduct of Project The contract agent, LIHuFF/, was born

in mexico and has had a long history of business experience in

Latin America, as well as, over the past fifteen years,, in Mexico.

At the present

time, be is Executive Director of U.S. Chamber of

Commerce of Mexico City, which gives him a great deal of mobility

in both American and Mexican business circles.

Generally, it is

from the Mexican business community that the financing and support

for right-wing political movements, organizations,

and institutions

eminate.

Given the general trend

of recent Mexican regimes,

as

well as

the present one,

toward more governmental regulation and

manipulation of the economic life of

the country, the Mexican

businessmen continue to support right-wing political movements or

ostensibly nonprofit civic, research, and other types of organiza-

tions used by them as front instrumentalities for expounding

their philosophy and taking action in the politico-economic fields.

LIHUFF/1 has natural access through his present position and past

extensive experience in the business community here.

Over the

years, as a matter of fact, his numerous associations with

these

elements have earned him their trust and respect.

In addition, (dog

the past four years he has funded Lic. Agustin NAVARRO Vasquez

LIHUFF /2)

organization, consisting primarily of Instituto de Investigaciones

Sociales y Economicos, A.C. (IISE), "Espejo" (a magazine on

politico-economic affairs), and Movimiento Universitario de

Renovadora Orientacion (MURO, a student organization).

Also, he

has

handled LICHANT/1 who has a history of,

and

numerous

associa-

tions

in,

the Mexican right-wing political

These

and

many

other contacts of this type will provide the basis for his reports

on this particular segment of the political spectrum in Mexico.

a none or to polite a boston in he reporte,

Targets Right-wing political elements and organizations

in Mexico.

This would include not only Lic. NAVARRO, IISE,

"Espejo, "

and MURO, but Hugo SALINAS Price, Jorge. SIEGRIST Clamont and numerous

others of political significance

on the flexican scene.

with LICHANT/l's present

SECRES

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-...

STARCIROX

-3-

position, it should be possible to obtain. information on

Ministry of Education and other aspects of the Mexican

ducation system which, accordin

to the last word received

rom Headquarters, is somewha= o1

a priority requirement.

and f of the Related Mission direct ree for seation Mexico

This project is responsive to Priority A3d

(approved October 1963).

This priority reads in part:

"obtain information on the stability of the Government

through

...

and through

of other powerful political groups such as

the

influencing or nigh-level

and through continued development and

i confir

contacts."

As an

ancillary measure,

the projeci could contribute to MHSPAWN

objectives of the RMD under certain circumstances where use

of right-wing platforms ana urganizations is merited.

3. Background.

a. Developments Leading 12 to Project.

(1) Mexico, politically, is a country in which, .

increasingly, a centrist political concensus is developing

based on the

impact of education and economic development.

On either side though of this growing central political

spectrum are extreme left and

extreme right wings which are

quite active

and quite vocal and which have

an

influence in

the form of individuals,

organizations,

and movements greatly

out of proportion to their numbers.

Political disturbances

and efforts

to

induce lack of stability eminate in the main

from these

two extreme wings.

As the centrist force grows

it is possible and probable. that these two wings will

intensify their efforts and become more and more radical:

The Station has intelligence coverage of the extreme left-

wing, but has neglected the equally. important extreme right-

wing when, in the final analysis, any threat to Mexican

political stability by fomenting

unrest and incidents does,

and

will continue

to, eminate

from the right-wing as well

as

the left-wing.

Assuming that,

as indicated in the present

RMD, the long range national policy objectives of the u.s.

toward Mexico are to encourage a stable democratic government

and

political

environment, then

coverage of the right-wing

is required if for no other reason than meeting

normal Station

responsibilities for political reporting.

HBFINCH contacts

in;this area have been, and probably will continue

to

be.

virtually nil.

In fact,. at present in this area HBF INCH

contacts are non-existent.

Lihurral was first picked up as a contact by

Station Mexico City in 1950 after having been a contract

agent for Station Panama City for some three years (while

engaged in business in Panama,.

He has been in a continuing

via.

---

## Page 4

..t:

÷.-4=

relationship of one degree or another with this Station

ever since then.

This relationship developed from

into formal contract status in November 1962.

LIHUFF/l has

handled Station contacts and

activitics with LIHUFF/2

as well as LICHANT/l from 1962 to date.

addition, he has done a good deal of reporting on right-wing

activities from other sources and other contacts of his.

subsidy of the LIHUFF activity.

for MHSPAWN purposes

will be terminated effective

30 June 1965. Use of LICHANT/l will be continued in an

intelligence reporting capacity and, in a limited way, for

covert action efforts.

•Prior Negotiations. There have been no prior

negotiations with the Mexican Government, intelligence or

used in the past, prior to his contract

with KUBARK, as a

source by ODIBEX and ODMARK.

•Relationship to Other Projects.

This project

has no relationship to any other Station project.

d. Utilization of Same Operational Assetse

LIHUFF/1 has not beenutilized on any other project, past. or

present, except to the extent he was involved with the LIHUFF

activity indicated in subparagraph 3a(2) above.

4. Operational Assets.

a. Personnel...

(1) LIHUFF/I (OA granted on 10 October 1952

with no number forwarded to field)

-- Subject was born in

is fluent in Spanish, and is about 49 years old.

Since World War

Il, he has been in private business

first in Panama and then in Mexico from 1950 on.

During World War 11,

he was in Army intelligence

in China and,

therefore, had an understanding of covert operations prior to

While in Panama, he was employed by

his KUBARK experience several years i to organize a nét

the Station there for

directed against a target of high priority interest".

association was terminated by reason of his move to

for business reasons.

Although he was in contact with this

station virtually from his time of arrival in Mexico, he was

not picked up as a contract agent until November

cover for his past and proposed activities has been natural:

that of a businessman with a conservative political out look

and interested in the economic and political posture of the

SR0227/LMPOK

---

## Page 5

14-00000

.. r.

-5-

Mexican Government.

Contact with him is covered by a social

relationship between his case officer and..himself; this

is

easily maintained given the large American community in Mexico

City.

He his had no formal intelligence training other than

that he received from the Army during World War il and on the

job with KUBARK.

Control

of Subject is no problem inasmuch

as he

is an American

citizen and has had

considerable

experience with KUBARK by now.

His motivation is that of

attraction to this type of work, being a u.s. citizen

Foreign area, natural

concern

forhis business interests,

and,

probably, the compensatory return from KUBARK..

is witting

of his KUBARK association

and,

aside from his World War ll

intelligence experience

with

OD IBEX,

in 1961 he had an

intelligence relationship with. ODIBEX which has long since

been terminated.

(2) LICHANT

but no number forwarded to field granted on 22 April 1963,

conservative Mexican educator and intellectual about

=- Subject is a ver4g years

of age.

He has alternated between working in various

capacities for the Government. of Mexico and in Mexican

universities.

At the present time, he is Private, Secy.

in Min.of |Ed.

sosition which gives him unique access in the government to

considerable contact wed atien int went als eople inas

influential people in right

wing circles:. He was recruited by LIHUFF/1 in August 1962

on the pretext of

doing research work and collecting infor-

mation

for LIHUFF/l's general use for business purposes.

Subject has natural cover for obtaining information on right-

wing

activities

from others due to his long association with

right-wing

activities as a student, educator

servant.

Contact between Subject and LIHUFF/1

and government

is maintained

under the guise of private business relationship. subject has

had no intelligence training from KUBARK other than that

imparted by LIHUFF/l in discussing his reports.

There has

been no problems in control since essentially. Subject under-

stands that this is a business relationship with certain

requirements involved for it to be sustained.

Subject's

motivation is that of an intellectually-convinced

who has common objectives and

conservative

out look with LIHUFF/l on

political and economic matters plus the financial aspect of

the LIHUFF/I relationship.

Subject is not witting of KUBARK

or ODYOKE interest in his

activities and reporting.

He has no

known contacts with other intelligence or security services,

past or present.

Mechan i sms.

There

will be no mechanisms involved

in this RAdARe and ta turn to will spelo, the mone for

NAVARRO, and, in turn, to lISE,

intelligence purposes.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

-E•

5. Security Evaluation.

In the unlikely. event of compromise,

LIHUFF/I could

continue to claim that he was not doing anything that hundreds

aren't doing as

of other businessmen, U.S. and Mexicans influence the politico-

commonly accepted in metice for their own benefie.

economic.climate. in Mexico

the extent of the compromise,

Whatever

Insofar

there would be no repercussion

as other operations

or activitles per se were

concerned except that there might be

some tightening of the

general operational climate for a while. If

-THUFF/I's true role were disclosed, he could probably be

backstooped with a minimum of publicity through high- level

Station contacts with the Government (explaining the Station

Interest in right-wing circles

as attempting to follow what

they were up to in case they became a threat to the stablilty

of the present government).

6. Soordination.

No coordination is desirable or required with other

sue chae verma coordinate weh various elements withiln.

assumed that normal

KUBARK. Headquarters will take place.

7.

Costs..

Generale It Is requested that this project be

authorized: in the amount of $9,000 per annum effective

_-July 1965.

b. Breakdown of fosts (per annum).

(1) LIHUFF/I salary

(2) Operational Expenses

(3) Entertainment and Travel

$3,600.00

3,000.00

2,400.00

Total per annum

$9,000.00

No non-KUBARK funds will be involved in this activity.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

c.

Foreign currency.

It is antiéipated chai iny

forseeable foreign currency requirements will be within the

Station's capacity to handle.

Ount tmentse

. No commitments have been made to

THUrr/ other than a salary of 5300.00 per month withi

thirty day's notice on termination.

Will on involved anyone most partine theser

sInce this project

requirements are deemed necessary for accountability.

the event that funds are passed for any type of special

activity other than salary, normal standards of accountability

will be used.

8. Annexese

•a. Administrative Plan or Fiscal Annex.

Not applicable.

b. Sonmunications Not applicable.

c. Iechn/cal Supporte. Not applicable.

do Logisticse Not applicable.

e. Intelligencee Nor applicable.

9. Emergency Conditions.

If an official anti-USA atmosphere of sufficient

Intensity prevalled In Mexico,

not be an ere maintain himself here, pare cularly if moulo

employment continued in his present capacity.

This,

however,

Is not seen as anything except a very remote contin

gency

due to the Government of Mexico's dependence on the U.S.

tourist trade.

In a general war, it is probable that LIHUFFAl

would be able to continue in

place without too much difficulty

and would be willing to continue operating on current objectives

or to undertake entirely new operations against new targets.

Contact and communicatlons should represent few problems in

Mexico.

---

