# 104-10182-10082

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10182-10082

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

SECRET

10

Chief,

Hestorn Hemisphere DIvIsIOn UFG

CARO

Chilet of Station.

• IMHAVE

Chief of Base, Shntingo de los Caballeros 6 33

Chief of Station, Santo Domingoll

Recent Activities Of MItchell LIvingston *VERBELL,

ACTION ACQUIRED REFTRERCES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE:

JMWAVE-1828

MARKER ГО СКО

NO INDERINE REQUIRED

ONE T QUAL FLED DESA

IAN JUGGE ITOE LINO

MICROFIM

HUO 3 1 1Y66

DOC.tieRO. di's

1. The following Infornation was provided by (EMSUMAC]. 1

source 1-1. The date of information 19 8 August 1966-; DOMNiCAN SErUM

2. Hitchell Livingston *WERBELL, III, a U.S. citizen,

had made several trips. to the Dominican Republic.

On one

of them, he phoned General' Antonio *IMBERT Barreras and

_Commodore) Ramon Emil10[*JIMENEZ, Jr., and told them that he

after Investigating Werbell further, Jimenez took the case to tra

the Minister of the Armed forces.

1. EMSUMAC believes that Werbell's purpose is to win

the friendship o

• military leaders so that he can bring

contraband - especially Jewelry - into the Dominican Republic.

(Statior Comment: Please note reference, for another possible

explanation:)

5. As of I August 1966,

Herbell is prohibited fron

entering the Dominican Republic.

This action,

instigated by

•l EMSUMAC, was based

on Werbell's activities in

the U.S., where

he has been involved in diverse activities with representatives

of various Latin American countries and is considered a

Werbell has also tried to pass himself off as a

representative of the U.S. Government.

Herbell has financial problems with the U.S. Govern-

ment over payment of back taxes, and his company is bankrupt.

wichael C. Choaden

Distribution:

2 - Chief, WAVE

416-33

1 - COB, Santiago de los Caballeros

PRG

CROSS REFERENCE TO

5 COPY

DISPATEN SINGDE ASS TUNGER

z2

HDCAY5511

¡A SIFTENTIO

CRow 1

101-291410

DATE

AL

4. 1135

L5 August 1956

MOS LE MUMBER

SECRET

2-259910

---

