# 104-10188-10042

## Page 1

- 00000

104-10188-10042

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

RUSTLAIDN

SECRE!

PROCESSING

" 15918

Chief, Wil Division

DESENSITIZED

PEr ESI 45-4J

THEN: 1:0 1N041IMC

1 8 108.04 M001990

to Me !.

Crilet os Statlon, Marico. City

SHEET

LIFEAT Progress Report/February and March 1953

TEA REQUIRED REFERENCES

0134:0

ANS. 18C1-

78.*.

Ref: HMM.;-29873

PS

1. The iollowing report is submitred in accordance with CSFHE-F

52-6-1, Section V, paragraph ?(W (1).:

DES NED

BI.--

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

1) LIFEAT/SOVie LIFEAT continued to provide daily coverage of the

hone phone of Sovlet Intelligence officer. Alcksandr G. SIDOROV In order to

both provide information on the contacts u! SIDOKOV ald to support the

MACHARITY-20 opera: lo. by providing information on the dally routine of

the SIDOROV fa nily and mald. Overage of a second Sovie: Intelligence

officer, Svyaroslar F. KUZNETSOV, was reinaralled in March in order to

support the Station officer conducing the LISTEED operarion.

In addition, LIFEAT ulderlook coverage of a suspected one

time Sorlal support agent.

LIFE:AT product is valuable in dereloping basic

Informa: lo. on this target which would uherwise be difticult it no: impossible

to obtain.

2) LIFEAT/PolIsh

As in che pus: LIFEAT continued to provide Information

on the dally activitles and contacts of she Polish Embassy persomel in Mesico

City.

3) LIFEAT/ Yugoslar In additio, to reporting on the dally acrivitles and

contacts of the Yugoslav official Installation LIFEAT provide information on

the planned attendance at JMSAlL conterence of two Yugoslas diplomats who

are suspected intelligence officers. LIFEAT also provide intormation pre-

dicting the promo: ton of Yugoslar-Merlean trade as a resuli or the Mexican

President's visit roB 1984ect.

CS Classification:

(Continues)

12 Ap= 1963

RECORD COPY

SECRET

11 Aor 19,3

HMM.r-21050

50-m32/3

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION Of

DISPATCH

SECREI

HNNIS-21080

1) LIFEA!/ Czechoslavakian LIFEAT Is covering the home-s cvo

Cacchoslavakian Ineiligence officers in hopes of gating operational leaus

for the Interested Station officer.

5) LIFEA!/Cuba.

LIFEAT covcrage of three lines in support of the

AMSIRUT operation continues to give an

"essentlal" check on this uparatlo:

as well as providing by produci information o conditors in PBRUMEN.

Coples of the processed taie irom these lies are forwarded trice a weck

tO WAVE: LIFEAT provides coverage of AMSTET-L, of great Intorest to

the Stailon's JMGIN officer, and prior to AMSTET-l's return to Mcxico

provided coverage of the home oé a Cuban offlelal formerly stationed In

6) LIFEAT/Exile In this area the coverage of ESLARD-I plus three

relateu lines was the singie major offort by LIFEAT during the reporting

period. This coverage incluted i week of "live munitoring" of these lines

prior to ESLARD-l's departure from Mexico. The Station officera Interesied

In this case described LIFEAT coverage as "excellent and sustained with

many operational leads".

LIFEAT coverage of a Costa Rican Communis: living in Mexico,

Judith FERRETO Segura, contains an unusual number of leads for use by the

interested Station Case Officer.

7) LIFEAT/American Communists Coverage of targers In this area is

of primary interest to ODEVVY. According to local ODENVY, travel and

contacts of the ACGM provided from the LIFEAT coverage is of particular

and continuing Interest to chem.

1300

19 530

8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneo.is LIFEAT Is covering a former SMOTH agent

wilo is of Interes: to KUBARk for posstbly compr mising loh SMOTH and

KUBARK operations. The lead to ihis Individual and reques: for LIFEAT

coverage originated from Headquarters. Also LIFEAT, in connectio: with

LIEMERACE, provided lengthy coverage of Fra.clsco WALTZ. Ollvera as a

result of a lead from the Statlu:1's LIJENNET operation. This lead ralsed the

possibility that WALTZ could have been a source of U.S. air navigatlonal

ma erials for the Soviets.

Coverage of WALTZ, horever, tends to confirm

his non-Involveme it with the Soilets, at leass during the period of LlEMBRACE-

LIFEAT coverage.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

Karen C. UTTLECKY was added o. an availability basis to the processor

translator staff of LIFEAT. Howiver, her primary durtes continue io be that

of part time iranslator eé general Siatlon ma erials. No oiler changes have

taken place,

C. LIAISON

No change from tha: reported in reference.

D. SECURITY

During the reporting perial, it has becoine increasingly difficuit for

LIFEAT to operaie in a number v greas in Mexico City for two reasons:

1) the increasing efficiency ef the telephole company (Telcionos de Mexico)

in boch modernizing their teiepione cable system and leopiug irack o. their

tally persomel assigamcats (so:newhat reducing the mubility of the eve

LIFEAT lineme: and one centralman), ald 2) the assigument by the Secretaria

le Communicaciones y Obras Publicas (SCO?) of special crew's to check all

SECRET,

TWO

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION Of

DISPATCH.

SECKET:

HMM: -21030

elephore conny distribulon boxes for "spire pairs" which could be used

to provide semico lo Mexico City residents now nichou: telephones. It is

these "spare pairs" which LIFEA'l' utilizes for the routing of lis tap lines co

tho busehouses, LIFEAT persomei have suerceded in dereloping variailons

•on their regular tap procedures wilch it is beliered will help nogate the effecis

of the dangers died above. Further refinements of LIFEAT operating merhods

are presently heir coisidered, and will be implemented as necessary.

E. TECHNICAL

No change from that reported in reference.

The combined coverage for the two months of this report to:aled 24

separa:e lines (16 in February and 23 in Marci). Corerage by larger was

as follow

1. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV

2.

Styatoslav F. KUZNETSOV

3.

Suspected Soviet support agent

t. and 5. Pollsh Einbassy

6., 7. and 3. Yugoslav Embasiy

9., 10. and 11. AMSTRUT Opera:lon

12.

AMSTET-I

13. Judlth FERRETO Segura

1t.

Albert/Murgarer MALTZ

15. Charles/Bertha SMALL aja SMOLIKOFF

16.

Noah/Anna SEBORER

17., 18., 19. and 20, ESLARD-1 and related lines

Francisco WALTZ. Ollvera

22. Former SMOTH agent of interest to Headquarters

23. and 21. Homes of two Czech intelligence offleers

2. Diring the reporting perior a number of memoranda were prepared

by the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY baged in whole or in

pari on LIFEAT provided maueral.. The folloring HMMs were provlded as

a by product of the LIFEAT operation,

HMM 7106

MMM 7145

HMM 7160

tarts artis

Distributio::

4 = C/HID

2 - Files

7* 530

3115344

CLASSIPICATION

SECRET

52. -6-37/30

THREE

---

