# 104-10162-10247

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10162-10247

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

FIDENTIAL

IZ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: 10pnono1

TROM:

cI Suspect

EXTENSION

на

CATE

P Iapusta

To can drugs, room neces, and

DATE

MaNO

c/53/cI/I

2.

J.

4.

S.

6.

7.

8.

9.

Is your the percits, this is

the second cá the tro cases

I discüased rith you (spotted

I would be laterested la jour

Tiers as to tis possible IS

Involveret land ubetter I may

be all vet in feeliag he is

sorset dispatchod).

Do you see an Illegal Support?

espects to this case?

Preschin

P jap ista

Lapasta

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

610-707069

•SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SURET.

SP./0/AC - 64 - 212

22 October 1964

MAMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Irving AHRON

1. Subject responded to the AlEXPLORi ad for a position as a

Russian lenguage linzuist.

As was requested of hin, he provided the

Porns 444, 89, autoslography, and photograph.

on 3 Septe ber 196%.

3. The fallowing was obtalned fron ARON durirg the intervlew:

Subject, of Jevish descent, was born in 1917 1n the USA.

subject's father, uhose ordelnal lane bad been

Philip AMRONIM

care to the lSA in 1905/06 at the ase of approxámstely 15. Pallip

AKRONTM's parents steed fron the GOlEl area.

At the tine of his

emigration to the lsi, he was accouperled by his rotker (bis father

died squetine prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters:

Levis, Willy, Ace (who bas since died), Moris, Minnie (now married

to LATION), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's Iatber's brothers

Mat, are butchers by occupation, inclualns Subject's

fether. Max girduated from CCITY and became a structural engáneer;

he has an office on 43rd Street and his fiTh 1s called the Anton

Associates.

subject's sotber, also of Jevish descent, case to the USA

1n 1912 (or 1913). Eer older sister, Paande, 18 sarled to (fnu)

COHSH uho is presently retired and 11ring In Florlds. Eer sister,

Ruth, narrled Max ARON. Her brother, Hymen

HORLIK, who arxived

In the USA Only 1n 19E2, ONE a lIqUOr store in BajonGe, NeW Jersey.

subject's nother has another sister (su) who 1s presently Iving in

Florida. Subject's sother bas one brotber uto 18 st1ll living in

Ex:?-".

SECRET

---

## Page 3

4-00000

SUET

-2-

co ht the tioe of Subject's birth, Sabject's father vas

mployed In the brooklyn shipyards.

However, be changed jobs

then as & butcher

and finally becese active in a Jevish cooperative organization.

As Subject's latber becase corvinced that the future of the jews

VEB 1n Russia under Soviet Commisu, in 1931 Subject's family

left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhen where Subject's father

vorked as es agroncuist be had sonetime prior thereto graduated

fron the kational Farm School in Bucke County, Pennsylzaria).

do

Ascusing to subject, his fanily returred to tbe USA

1n 1933; the notivating reasco therefor was the 111 bealth--

Subject alleges that, because they had retained their US citizen-

sbip, tbey experienced no problens either in leaving the USSR or

In obtaining persission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's

father allegedly did not Ilke life In the ISSR; bovever, Subject!

nother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR aiter

anly a brief stay in the lSA.

e.

As a result, later 1s 1933 the entire AMRON Iamily once

again returned to the UssR.

Again, Subjec, states that they bad so

proviems in obtaining autorization Iron the Soviet government

for this trip to the USSR. Ison their ieturn to the issr, tbey

esteblished tirerseltes in l'oscow where one Yoah LondoN, & friead

of the family and a construction engireer, toot subject's father

"Into bis employ". Subject's father vorked in this capacity, in

the construction industry, Irda 1953 to 1936.

sometime arter tbe

1936 purges beges, subjer.'s fatber vorked for Konsorolsk, a Moscow

"panel board construction" outfit.

In 1936 subject's istber also

vorked for the Paris Carmue as a sboemaker.

Subject's nother

vorked during this entire period as chlef of a dining establishment

In tbe scbool of foreiga languages in MoscoN.

subject began his elesentary education at the Delitt clato

school in the ls; where he studled unts: 1931; he then studied in

the Soviet secondary schoal in Khabarorsk, Birobidzhan, until 1953.

In 1933 he again returned for are semester to the Devitt Cliaton

Schoal.

Later 1n 1933 and 1934 be attended the Anglo-American Seboal

1n Moscow where be completed his 8th grade of school. He then

continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School $327 in Lbe 24t)

Bauman Rayan. In 1936 be entered the Moscov Avtodorozinly Institut

rhere be studied on the civil engineering faculty, to be a higiva

enganes.

STONET.

---

## Page 4

4-00000

SEC ET

-3-

1o the construction

of an sintrone in Minsk, latper to the Polisa

station of Jasos.

go In 1957 Subject's sotber vas disalesed fros ber position

and both sbe azi

subjech's faticer begen to feel the pressure of the

purges.

subjert's father, ailegedly by appealing to the then President

KALLTIN, succeeded in again acquiring exat visas for tben to tee

he states,

According to subject, bis father never lost his American

citizenship. Susject's notber, hovever, in 1936 appiied for aud

nicoruinó

amrined soviet citizenshio.

obtalaed soviet citizenship" by default" altbough be never applied

"i¿his in person;

he alleges that eltbough he was lô years of age

8'::2e tine, he vas "granted" soviet citizenship by virtue of his

Du!: Ar's application for ber ous citizensh's.

10

subject remained in Moscow pricE to world kar II. In April

1940 be married

FinE MOISEYIVA

& bookkeeper by proress10s,

sis ves the step daughter as the well-knova Major SEOGOLEY of the

"Sorist Proleteriat Regisest".

A son vas born to them in dune 1j4l.

Altbough at this time subject vas assigred to the constructica ii

serodrones to sport froat line troops, he succeejed in pullias

strings and in arranging a "WY trip" to Moscow, esteasibly to risit

the Geodetic Institute.

Enroute back fron Moscot to the froat ises,

Subject's train got bobed in Srest Iltorsk on 22 June 1941 and as

a result he vas returned to Moscou on the same trsin via Baranorichi.

secanding to subject, he vas then assigued to the Moscow Military

technícians and laborers too ver

engaged in building dumy ass sites for casouflage purposes.

In August 1941 Subject states that he vas pernitted to retur

to school in order to receite his diplora bich was granted him in

Ostober 1941. Fe was then assigned to the 220d liayenno-Dorolkaty

Otryad vtich vas forned in daitrov but which was ten assigned to

suzdal'.

Subject states tost he vas not inducted into the Soviet

ailstry serrice allegedly because "engineers vere reeded" and

SSORST

---

## Page 5

4-00000

because, as a member of the Kís, this vas considered as equivalent

to military service. Nosetheless, in response to my'query, subject

adultted that this vas mustal as his activities were ? a kind which

vere periorned by old voren rarticularly elnce durine tils period,

from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soriet males

vere drafted into tise soviet arty.

During this perfod Sabject lived

in confarative ease, being assized to sudal and K117, and other

towns,

Accoralaz to Sibject, te vore an MiD mifora dus vore no

1nsigaia.

He admitted toat

"Jerored treatent" vas bestoved upon

him and his fenily then the M assisted bin in evacuating his first

wife and son fros loscou in hujist 1941 to cejond the urals.

(Ris

son by his first vile reporteily died on 1l Cctober 1943 of diabetes.)

soscon and Mastery Infantry Institute ere at cape stent to ta s

102 ma ma chich 50 - Jin tha Sale c61 diEt in die soviet

InIeTiTy. In response to My Gery, Subject again adritted that tals

appointrent was higbly unusual as his background did sot lend Itseli

to this, as appointzents vere inde out of the various miiitary

branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (Aserican), he vas

fully and corpletely trusted by the soviet punitive organs who had

cleared bin both for this training and the Institute end for promotion

to officer status in toe soviet Army.

I. Initially be ves sent to Alater on the Volga, then to Orel

Where we vas asBigues to the iront ilnes 1n August 1943. He was given s

platoo of. Infantry troops In tice 415th Infantry Divisicn of the

Soviet Central Frost. Fovever, In October 1943 he vas vonded; he vas

hit in the left foreheza by e terman bullet.

Ee was opecated on in

a fieid hospital ana tiben trassierred to a Moscow hospital after be

bed recovered suilicienly. ¡e vas reclassified after tis recovery

and founa suitable to continue in military service vita tire limitation

that ke should not serve on the front lines (goden vtorol stepent).

so Because the round felled to beal copletely (be bas & very

Obvious scar,

with approdmately a 1" depression, on his forebead),

he "asized" to be assigned to a "armer clicate.

he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched hII to Ib1l1s1

were be vas placed 1n a specia: officer's camp; he ves bospitalized

again, kod osteosyelltis complications, and ultimately discharged frou

the Soviet military forces. Eurever, Subject provided several

contradictory storles as to tbe date of discharge which at various

tines be indicated occurned 1n May 1944, then In July 1gil, and even

1n August 1944.

(NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story cothered hir

as it vas obvious to the undersigned that subject had somewhere became

confused in this aspect of his tackgrouad.)

SEGRET.

---

## Page 6

4-00000

-5-

so Upon bis discharge, be vas retured to the soscos ares uben

te was placed in a rest bor. (although Subject admitted tbet there

really existed no seed for 1h1s a ha bad Iscoiciod diready prior

to his discharge). Is contizuing bis sarration, Subject isdicated

that the rest of bis story "soreds very straage and unbellevable"

but then averred that it tas true.

le states that, strang. as 1t

appears and despite the sboitage of Soviet sen at tbe time (1g44)

be could not "find" hissel? a job.

Ee went to the HiD utich did

estoasible for this

As a result, be appealed directly to tbe

Knister of the HiD uto "tried to intercede" in Sub.lect's benall.

allegedly a ter be vas given a full passical exination, be vas toid

that be could not te assized to the tishuey units for reasons

vaica jare not apei. out to soject.

0.

subject tben "sought out" vor's with the Nauchniy Sovet with

no luck. Ee ultimately obteines a job with the Moscow Soves in the

Joscow soviet Senict Library (siC)e in lorender 194, at a salary

of 900 rubles, Subject began vorking in the lleld of "Iroastia

on municipal vorks-bigar corstrictios, architecture, saltatioa,

etc. Fis immediate supervisor vas (1a1) IoDOUSY, the beat of

Iscoration departsent of the pydro-iseras Project. Subject aditted,

In reply to toe uniersimeù's query; tost ais vork jas

tor several reasons.

high esà out of Ire vith his qualifications. Secondly, trouza

paù à salaly for s fuii-tire joo ani position, he sctuzily voried oa

a part-time basis snà uns able to core end eo alnost as he vishad.

His nor's also included working on abstracts and translations from

Bnglish to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dan cosstruction,

and bydraulics.

p. In June 1949 Subject states that be vas dismissed Irou tbe

foregoina position aiter le vas elven the explanation tast tbe flou or

Isterature fron tbe USA, which subject was treaslating, had decreased.

In actual fact, Subject states, he vas belog "purged" because he vas

& Jer.

Fe then fouad a job as a laboratory assistant is a concrete

plant where be voried inos july 1949 to 23 February 1950.

be did not lite that Job, sibject states he vrote to stalla personally

as a result of which, within less than 4 voeks, he vas offered 4-5

different jobs.

Coundttee of the CP to that "Stelin had sorvarded the Letter". In

reply to ry query, subject aritted that he vas not consersed that,

by uriting to stalla, be bould come to the attention of tbe soviet

punitive organs, MTD/MEB, t41ch vould undertake to investigate his

case. Accordingls, on 1 April 1950 subject was Elven a job as ea

SEG-ST,

---

## Page 7

4-00000

• : ..

iootin

6-

engineer vith the Besaan District Road Department where be vorked

uat1l Pebruary 1955.

3o After he lost his jos in 1949 vith the Hoscou Sovit, he rtz-e

ikat bis relations vith his vile vent sras bad to vorse enà ulelestei,

cultitated first in & separation and latter 'n a divorse 1n 1950. Is

the seastire, he was already Ilting with

Eugenia FOLSOVA

en empoljee and a tescter of lorsenie nedicise of the Hoscou Hedlical

Institute vbere soe vas studrine lo= ber ja0 and vbere ste vas

ion:ec0t==ora-a s53=3t2a1-Jeta Saiect =omuled be= n1thez 1=

1950 0= 1951.

Eoveres, vithis less thm ooe nonth of tbeir narriage,

S'ibject ditorcei ber as he fowd out that sbe vas a "tad person" snd

because be

„"had falies blisdlt in love" vith ier. (50E: Ihls aspect

of Sutject's story disturbed l'a very mucho je vas uusure of Llasel,

was tegue on dates, ietails, speclflcs, Lanes, etc. It vas agaio

obrious that sibjest was less thas frant esd open aout this aspect

of bis beciground. Es naitaiica did sot souad counlrcing to susject

birsal? then he begas talking about "falllag blindly la love", etc.)

In 1932 he begen I1niaz tith enother soues,

Bose MIRKINA,

vbos be martled only in late 1954 vben their soa vas elready vell oa

the vay. MIlNIRA's pareits ed laRdly vese tery etroualy opposed ta

the errtiage because tbe parerts leld resposaloie party positioas asá

Rocause MITalRA's brotver beld a sensitive position sith the sovlet

clectrosies and aristica industries. À sou vas born to jubject and

MCiKTIA 0n 5 April 1955.

I. In ca 1954 (dates vajue) Subfect entered the Institute of

Marxisa-Leninisu asi contizued his studles for tbree os sore yeare.

Though be registerei for tbe erening sessions, he dercted a good

portion of lis dgis to studj. la a resalt, susject egais adsitted

to tbe undersigued tist be actually las la a unique position of belaa

able to da altost as be Mrisbed and desired" altbough ostensibly be

vas a fall-tise enplojee of tbe Bauuas DistIIct Poad iepartrento Wrile

a student at the Institute of Harxist-Lesínisa, Subject and his vile

began sutuitting applications tos a tisa to tiGit suoject's farento

1n tbe USA. In actuel fact, subject staree, bis real purpose 1n

applYIDE por tbe tles vas to "defect" upoa

his arrival 1s tbe USA.

In February 1955 Sübfect states that be ves

' "I1red" Iron bía joò

With the Bauwan Distict becaise of "politlesl vrelletillty".

susject adaitted to sbe undersigned that tse real reasoa for disalesei

C3T

---

## Page 8

4-00000

SECRET

-7-

"political unreliabil1ty"

bia studles at the Institure of 46-xisu-Leaisdex.

"to es-ebl1si at first hand for bi=sel?"

better Subject really wished to "¿eiest to tbe ish", subject's

Iather renained In the USSR IOT e toral o. 10 ¿8y5.

of his father's visit, Suoject cranzed his testícs and legas to

subalt asplicaticas for "Itigation" to the Usin as earlier, tbese

antiestio=- too 9000=1900t03; Loiarea, 521106 states Liai de

contistied resubmitting tsen sereral tires each jear.

After be left the Baran DistrIct place of esplogent in

February 1955, Subject Iove vors as a "ITe? Lance translator for

aDe MOscEr TOrgoYaya Faiata.

3e carzed ca diO rubles yer jonth

translating Englisà language estattal relstei to the 1r0s sad steel

plant rica was

belug desigead by tie 153. IOr erectica 1n India.

In JarusTy 1956 subject ford col as cale: ee the treaslations

troyesiya; his iunctions cassister finalit of supervising ta

and detoted most of his time end erera to tibe studies at the

Institite of Massoon-Leninisa. S1s salary continued at 1100 rubles

per sonta.

Il. In August 1958 bis work cane to e7 ead. Generally be

provided a contardictory account 1n this respect. Initially he

stated tirst the position had beer ellilnated but then changed this

story to state that he resized in dugust 1950 as he vouis cave bad

to bedto devoting his full tie to the vort. In any case, his

resigestion generally coincided vith his couplecion of stad'es at

the Institute of tarisu-Leniusa

Thereaftes, and vasil his

1512a110n to the USA in 1922, Sabject held so full tire job.

Fonetbeless, he states that be succeeded 1a estaing to less than

about 1100 rubles per nauth by vorking as a Irve lance trenslator

for the Torsovaya Palata of Moscou. Ee turned over to the underaigued

a saple of bis translation extorts--see the attached loris. In

respasse to. my query, subject admitted that his vork assa vas af

such & nature that be vas a Inte egent, case and vent as he pleased,

and generally vas responsible to no one. lpparentiy in order to

SEC. IT

---

## Page 9

4-00000

&-

tise, tad any relationship vith the Kub (or its preiecessor

orgarizations).

5. In July 1952 Subject's sother and father come to scou,

this specifically for the purose of gettlag Subject to return to

the Us. They stayed in Moscow emm ala?-is

mig salt tine the

AnthOr DiSE iLVerO tO KEPiSECEY, tO MEA ISRUSICITA, tO AIRFLESI,

to the Suprene Soriet, to the 1i09, and to otber Soviet establisa-

neats i= order to get subfect and his son perzission for migration

to the USA. (Subject's vife, MarINA, bad died in 19E1.) In August

1962, vile vacationing 1n Socai Sunject ves ecleat out by the

local Inturist office and epprised by the locel militia coffee that,

Upos his retira to

Moscow, siloject proceeded to tbe Azericen Brassy unera be vas

savis id that he hed sot tien gagated an exit tisa by the soriets.

as a result, subject erplied for inigretion to ine lsa trice, once

1n the copacity of a sorset citlim ustag his Sorist passpost, and

the secood time in the careeity of an "American citizeá"

v.

In Septenber 1952 the applicetion to trsvel to the lEA

8B 20

"Hedgrant" was approved for hir and bis 501.

There are,

vithout i'log to receive approval to travel soder bis clais of

belag as "Inetican citizen", si jest left the SER and entered the

USA on bis soviet passport togetter vith his sou on 24 segerber

1562 via =dievild.

Upon his artiral is the isi, Subject intlistely

undertoos setim

to hare dis "Aserican citizensaip" restored. This

vas 1aiwaily denied as be hod adaisted that he tad voted 1n ebe

soviet astional electioas.

Porner, ke then retained an attorcey

uto appealed the case; the origasal decision ves then seversed and

both sub'ect and his son sad their is citizenship restores "o ber

1n the simmer of 1903, the reversal was based so Subject's claim

that be sad had no choice and vas, sherefore, carpelled to rote 1a

the USSR satIonal elections.

Upon his arrival in the 54, subject Imediately spplied

for a position with the it, bouster, be vas rejected as be vas "etste-

less" at be ilse, He then accepted s pos1:100 vith stalliag, Lori-

2ood, per or tenan, coat de too a superio to

!

---

## Page 10

S337

Blaurelt erydneering firm for hon be vorted from January 1963

broach duly 1904. In 1704 Subject lound work with Farold J.

WIDE?, 60 Eroad Street, Red Bant, Ser Jersey, as an estatel

it on the plains and destin

toraship er neer of karltoro TOuRiNip, leu jersey. ils preseat

salary 1s =100.00 per roati.

J. Is April 1963 Subject serried

BelLa MERCHERG DEE MILSISIN

& Palish Jer who had come to the let fron Poland in 19i9. Sue has

un ame to her marime marmagals!, Sunfect and las tos son live

.In the tone of his present wife.

aments and Assesenent:

Bo sabject speaks native suglish and passes for a sddale class

ADeriCad. Fis Russian 15 Iikewise sative.

b. According to Subject, his objective 1n life Ins 15 to vort

Be states tiat be bas subaltted jOIs MY t

appiTig lur the posItion Inder ATELIER, Sebject reced 1o= $19,000.00

fer annun bich 1s his asking price for a position vita the is Gorerapest.

Co Accordlng to Subject, ls present position 1s excellent vita

great potential for 60108 into partership as sosa so be lesses z

Icensed englaeer. Eovever, he stetes that be is not Irrerested 11

adag soDey ideszite bis request OT a $10,000.00 salaTT) but 15 Ilet

og Communisn" as an exployee or the us coveresent.

d. Subject aditted that he was a firm and strode belierer of

Cosmisa vhich, incidentalit, vas the reasoa voy be remaines bediad

1n the 1587 vhea his parcats retursed to the lSA in 1957.

Corrunist Party, this despite tibe fact that be becone en officer of

the sorlet Army and despite the fact that be vas accepted to study

st the Institute of Marxist-LeniadE, Despite bis allered "diseschest

seat" vIth Camniss, Subject spabe 10 flattering teres about l'le

1n the LIST, about the "denocracy", about equal opportunities, aut

the excellent "educetional systes", et cetera. Subject airlited tha:

SH0.2T

---

## Page 11

4-00000

CEOMET

-10

be ted led almost a "chering ensense" in the lEs? and that

neither 11se in tle USER sor tice soriet aution!:es Ilesrested his.

¡aloo" According to subjert, be ves heres erreried in the sorset

1. In reply to sy query, Subject lodicated "bat 18 1958 tbe

1e3 tried to co-opt his into rejo-tizaà teller sirdest at the

Institute of Hardes-Lenitise.

Foveries; Suject sa'es tbat be

rejestd the pitch. In reply to rarIous queries dias vere posed

to his about the tellor-scudest (ness ellegaiiy sor ¿orgotioa),

subject states that he did render an blataraise report on the person.

Despite this, the fartiniar soriet wee eitherely assisted eiroad

es en lnterpreter.

Suisject Later beari taRt ise suriet vorized sad

trarejeú :., bota japan an isaij.

3o In reply to a general query abort 11fe 1= tie isSa, Subject

Indicated that life 1n the 1559 bas Inde his 15z0 "es ascouplished pre-

raricator".

b.

subject vas less then fueat 1n relatios ice story of big

Isfe to the undersigned.

ãe esde ristakes inessearly, be contra-

lIcted hissell, te altered dates to a:camori dier aspects o1

is aitivities to correspand it dat he bed sentimed coller, ete.

Also, Sinject revertedly tried to airess inan disting his story

into presenting hia vleus of 11ie; 1t vas a coore to jeep bár on

substantive estters reiating to bis om backersod.

1. Subject's brother, Eugese, is Dor emiayed es an endlacer

on the Freebell Tonaster,

Trev Jersey.

private office in Fockland, Hen Jersey, salled ibe CiTil Infineer

ISsOCIates.

Ja Sabject's account of bou he anquired Sories citizensbip-

sEe Ebove-- 1o a Tely veât ites in Suject'statio le Mill here

us belleve that be got soviet citizenship ty de'eultr ss e result.

al his sotber's appiication for Sorlei citileast, for bersell.

Ee Minsell adultted to the undersigued that this is 1llcgical as

his brother, jugede, jose status vas no alierent ince Subject's,

DeTer acquired Soviet citizeashio

"Dy defauit" abortia subject did

Ilegedly ithout any setion vasterer on bis ous jari. tereover.

subject adritted that be vas legally of age (1i) by this tise dad

Do lOnger a dependent as a result of which be would hare had to appli

for a soviet passport and for Sorlet citizesship of lus ona free

rallison rather thas through his sorber.

SELLET

---

## Page 12

4-00000

SECRET

-11-

Sanject 1B EaRre that the story of his "Inieration" to

the USA 15 2i50 peak.

te "got out by nistake", that he vas pertitted to do "es hide the

soriet share saTonding tie Cuban crisis", that "sobeone had

condtte¿ sI Error", etc. Ee aditted that tbere exots so other

expleration es to sty the soriet soreruent vould beve peritted

him to leste tre US53 Es, 1a the eyes ai tice soriet ecreroest, be

ves a full Reized and respossible soviet citizer sto had no

genuine o= legizinate clais to inerica citizensbap. is a result,

Subject is Instaily sengitive to this topic.

5. COBELUSIC:

In the orinion of the undersiesed, sabject sbould not be

considered for eIther ABSOFERN OI ADBXPIORE despite the lact bota

his anglish and Russian are native.

bo On the basis of the laterrer, the undersigned feels that,

Subject 1s leas then frezk and tast be 1s pretaricaticE. MoreuTes,

there exist Immerable Iters in subfect's tale bich are Indicative

both that he voried as a restulted egent of the KGB (asi lis

predecesser organizations! in the ISS and tist he left the Ice only

through sad with the Intersession of toe ENs.

E. It eboald te underscond that because of the mique ald sensitive

cover used by the undersiged, so attempt vas mede to regalre tire tarlome

castradictions, to cicallerz Sübject os say of bis statesents, or to

purse certain pointa d tiel- logical conclusion.

obtered in the fon of en intariler and so real atterpt could be sace,

gaves the cores, to delte nore deeply into the sUSpiciOUs asTEcts of

PELER P. KAPISTA

chaet, SR/0/RC

SECHET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

.

CRACI USE

THAT SPACE

PERSONAL HISTORT STATEMENT

027 5, 1964

LiSTRUCTIONS

1. AnsTer all questinas compleiely or chest appropriale bor

ll guestion is not applicabi. urite NA.

Trite "Us

¡DONE" OCiT' I NEE do sol iDor ise assues dad il cannor be obtained fron versonal records. Use blank spade at

End of icens ise extra derals on any quesion for urich you hase insuificiest space.

1. Type, price or unice carefuily; illegible or iscomplete forms will col receive rosicetarian.

3. Consióes yous ansters carefuli). Your siphatre al lse end ol this fors mil ceruty lo treir conecisess Carefal

corpiction el all aspirable questioes sil percut reviet of jour qualifications to te best advantage.

SECTION!

GENERAL PERSONAL AL'S PHYSICAL DATA

Rect

SIME LIES FED: KISSI

IRT-*G

AGE

3. SEX

Sogn

E. 2011905÷055

-7. COL57:0E MAXA

155÷

IB. TYPE COMPLEMIN

155t

FEMALE

5. TYPE BUILS

heavy

IN SCARS TIRED LORI DEep SCaT (1"12") on left part ca forecead

AP. OFFER INS- INJASMINO POYSICAL FEATURES

Jone

269987444 9397 s 200e, Son end Coini

Long train, ded jersey

=JaRENT

231-222-3532

17. MiTERARIES

1 122-0755

260 arshali

LOnE.

-aranci,

dea Jersey: Cel: 201-222-5392

16 LEGAL RESIDENCE TIere. Territory or COurse)

Kev jersey

1B. DiMER HAMES TOL MAVE USED

! Hone

Hone

17. LAIRCATE CISCONS-NACES 'BIJUITE LEULE EL INTR, UNCER AMICA YOU HAVE EVER PSES TRESE MAMES.

NO IF LEGAL CURAT GIVE FARTICULARE INESE ERS DU DIAL ACEDTISTS.

HA

SECTION "I

POSITION DATA

"ANTICATE TOE TOTE DE ODER DA DOSITICR TEE DRICH YOU ARE AEPLYING

Russian language 1itzais

•I DATE AVARLABLE FOR EMELSYUENT

510,000

weeks ziter

@ IRZIATE YOUR MILLINGMEIS TO

TRAVEL

¡DIMIR:

FUTILATE YIJA MILLINGNESS TO ACCESS ASSIGANENT IN TME FELLOMING LOCATITSIC.

, FERTA:N LOCATIONS CALY ISPACITI:

A PAIRCATE ON AT E YOU YOU MOULI PLACE OM CUTSIGE CUTSIDE THE MASTERE"

Possibility of schooling for children

воти

---

## Page 14

4-00000

- 2.

SECTIENIN

CITIZENSHIP

I. IATE OF DIRTA

ПАСЕ ODI04! (П4.16918.6001157)

lee. +1917158054-339

"eb tor'

A. CITIZENSHID ACQUIDED BY

I жаты

ІОТНЕН(ПРАСКАУ):

7, COLOT LAWING LATURALIIATION CEATIPICATE

O. DATURAUIZATION CERTIRICATE NO.

S. ISSUES AT (CITy, SPaRa, CourAry)

D. MAVE YOU MELO PREVIOÚS MATIONALITY JO. IF YES, GIVE NAME CE COUNTRY

NA

I1. GIO& DARTICULARS CONCERNIMG PREVIOUS NATIONALITY. MAITE I BAS IVES IT SCUR, trE

Russian govermment considered =e as a Hussian citizen, even trough I

had never barded in an appiication for Soret citizenship. Due to this,

and because I vas in a rush to leave the country,

I arived sat on 2

Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Erbassy in Mescow I fillei in si-

zultareously tao applications for entry into the U. S. A. : oge as an

1a=igrunt and tre otter as an Arerican citizer. I receiveo a

jonquota

F-2(1) wisz dated Sotester 109

1052. diver arrival the Soard of Appeais

of the Dept. of State reinstated ay native-bon citizenship.

INES

13 GIUE PARTICULARS

MESENT CARES BREES TO CHANG

1E. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, GHAT IS

PRESENT STATUS OR YOUR APPLICATION (Put Papara, EsC)"

NA

IS DATE SE ARRIVAL iN US

1752

T'a-Gard-."

== O399590- AT THAT COUNTRY

s.

Sest-

TE LAST US. 11

20, 197pRa Piace ol lanua

r. y.

S. R.

T9. DATE VISA ISSUED

E-2012 FasciNa do So So So

Sept. 10, 1952

SECT INIV

EDUCATION

T. CHECK (X) MICHEST LEVEL OF ECLEATION ATTAINED

REXS THAN MIEN SENDOL CRADUATE

ONENTIO

OF COLLEGE. NO DECREX

MIEHRIMODL IRADUATE

IT DACMELOR

USiN 11S. IA CINMINCIAL SI-OOL GRADUATE

LEADING TO MIGHER DECREE

¡DOCTOR-JIRCHIE

VIRASCO-LELECALETS

I. MAME OF ELEMENTARY SEMOOL

P. So

32

3. DATES AT ENDED NONSTO

1928 to 1932

I. MARCE DE MIGH SCHOOL

Lio.

327

+ DATES AT 9 54 20 7335

T. NAME OF MIGH SEASOL

Z. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

2. ASSNESS (CErT. Stado, Country)

Erast, üa

A GRADUATE

i INO

1 Tires

3. HIGHSCHOOL

2. MOGRESS (CITy, Ssara Cossary)

Mescing üa Sa Se 3

A GRADUATE

Sires

NA

S. DATES ATTENEED MARRATa MA

A. GRADUATE

MAME ANO LOCATION OF COLL

OR LINIHENSITY

COLLEGE OR

UNIVERSITY STUDY

SiECT

CATES ATTENDED

ота 101

armon

0

CB

1936

1÷41

RECIO

HOURS

1s procity)

bescou autozobile ü Highway

Tostitate

Moscow, l. S. S. R.

BS

19÷1

SECTION IN CONTINLED TO PAGE !

---

## Page 15

4-00000

SECTION TY CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

BEECHLOT IPS CONTENT."'CH REQUIRED SiBMISSION OF A MRITTEM THESES, INDICATE THE TITLE

NA

MAME A,) ADORESS OF SCHOOL

Evening riversity of

larzisn-Leninisa

Roscow, D. S. So Bo

& TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

STUSTOR SPECIALIZATION

Political Sciences

FROM

1952

TO

1954

7. MILITARY TRAIMING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECLALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDMANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC)

MAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL

STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

2nd bescow infantry

intarary officer

FAOM

19+2

1943

MONTHS

10

School

& OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAIMIME NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

SEITIONY

1. LANGUAGE

1ias saloo asis darluato in

mich you passana any defres

il caspeiasce.

policiency sa Read lirito or

Sansk by finilra a chock IT!

to Rio approprasa bastest.

Russian

ALENT

TO

MATIVE

FLUENCY

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED

R- Rood,

8. Urito.

5- Spade

FLUENT

OBVIOUELT

FOREIGN

ADEQUATE ADE

CUATE

MESEAREN

TRAVEL

LIMITED

LEDGE

HON ACQUIRED

NATIVE

GED

COUNTRY

CONTACT SAGES

ICENCE

porents. I rareia,

eic.)

2. IF TOUMA

9.

15

YOU MI

YOU MONT

DEMOC STUDI " UNDER "HOM ACQUIRED"

NOTM ANO INTENSIVENESS ON STUDY.

NA

FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGMITICAMT

RITTEN FORA, EX-

ANGUAG. AMOROTHER SPECIALISCO PIELOS.

RIES AND TERDAMORODY IN TME SCIEN

I have deep knor-

of inforuation (technical) ebracing as, it on

of twenty years of experience in mussia.

CIRBOPICIRNCY TO LANQUAGE. DOULD YOU BE DILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANT DOSITION FOR OWEN

I...

•Д.

---

## Page 16

"MAN EL

Pares!

TES

CENCE

-00-E-3"5°

isosaid,

'noon. brainies de.

_Fe2-2-21

75, 6

Arrived

1n

cI:

¿satiate colieze

1,e7.

Inpessicie

Leave

•I:

2=5 2=7 21=3

asven jeers de repeated applications das aiored to leave, = 1952.

SUNITRESTATES

SECTICH VII

18-15-

TYPiNG AND STENGGRAPHIC SKILLS

arianiedian auto

¡ MACHINSO IRONICA FLO PRO MAD OPERATING EXPEDIENCE CO TRAIN AS EpiONE

see calculators

SECTION VIII

s@T.088.ncm.cm

chess - average raficiency.

cölindng a lia pleasare

SPECH

QUALIFICATICAS

DECIMAGEACTIOELI

INCICATE TIFFEIFICIENET

FICA QUPIPRCAECRR DEBULTING AGGS EXPEMIENCE GA PRAVING AMSCHRIGHT FIT MOUFEMA

'n the tas's of my twenty years o1 exceriesce

I could marade,

edit aid trailate Inf ration in tie field of as and 12,

publisied in inssian, ceo vico versa.

BACLUDING OU:

SECTION

PECIAL

n0 lirad

FAE AND

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECTIOS VII CONTLICED FPON PAGF. 1

• AECTRICION DA DIE ORERATER?

PEELER CENTER E CREDIER MERE ERN'ETERGE OR PROFESSIER, SUCM AS PILOT.

EYES

SO TO ABOVE. INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE ANO STATE ISSUING LICENSE (PrOVIDE LICEnSO ROBINDIY

-NA

A FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIRICATE (Y MoM Ol lisu)

KA

TI: LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Your of lenue)

HIA

MORCED, INDICATE

by Foreiga Languages Publishing House in 195j (technical).

D. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE GHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

TiA

1D. LIST PUOLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.

NA

11.

-IST ANY

ASSOCIATIONS DE SOCIETIES IN AMICH YOU ARE NON OR

YOU MAVE RECEIVED.

ERE FORMERLY

Hone

SECTION IX.

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indecale chronoladica! Milary of empioyment for pass 15 yeare. Account for all periost

including casual exploreral and all periods of enemplorent.

Giraddress and stare whal you did during periodeol

unemploymenr.

Lise all cinilian esploysent by a foreien Gorerumor, regardless at dates.

In completina item 9.

*De-

scription ol Duties" consider your experience carefully and protide scarinatal, objective staferenis.

January

anuary 91555

and I.

Send resent 413e

Slavelt

i angineering co.

8. ADDRESs fia, Sores, City, Stora Comes 79 Yadison Ave., IFIC

Consulting engineer:

suerst

8. TITLE OF 1O0

CE

1595A BEAONE

DEscRipTIoN Or DUTIE Highway design. Alignent, drairage, sewers, right-uf-w

final estivates.

Improving possibilities of furtner advancerent

SECTION IX CUNTINUED TU PAGE 6

=5 .

У,

---

## Page 18

• B .

SECTIOS LE CONTINITO ASON iNCH&

1 INCLUSINI DATES FROM and TO-BEllO ANd TrI

1252 to Deco

19:52

ADDRESS Da, Seract, Clly, Scaio, Counter)

35 20 305500152 Lorded d are van Sueterale

A. MitiD OF

SUgIOESS

Site

planning

TITLECE

10a

Jun. CE

DESCE.ETION

Gradi.a,

OF CUTIES

site planning for high schools

"TAR TOCK

Lite

TO REASINT FOR LEAVING

Improving possibilities of further advarcenent

1. INCLUSIVE DATES !FROM AT TA -BYlO. Ond teS

19>2 10

1952

1. 102 37 5 Site, culo, Courier

13 RAME IF EMPLOYING FIRMOR AGINIT

U.S. S.ho Chaber of Cormerce

El. Kulbysteva 6,

Moscow, U.S.S.ñ.

A. MIND GE BUSINESS

3. MAME SE SUPERVISOR

Foreign trade

Miss Pustnova

O. TITLE coLoR Free-lance translator

7. SALARY OR EARRINGS

jO. CLASS, GRADE (1l Faderal Sorrtco)

aid suitor

ere manth

D. DESCRIOTION OF DUTIES RepOrts for Iniornatiol Cöngresses,

, trade publica-

dan projects, road-bullding and constriction cachiner;

1. INCLUSIVE DATES /FrOM ON TO -LY$10 And IT )

1256 to

ept.e

1952

3. ADDRESS (Na, Sereol, Cily, Stase, Coumerr)

A. KIND OF BUSINESS Foreign trade

B. TITLE oF 108 Free-lance transiator

and editor

D. DESCRIATION Or DUTIES Irade publications

nachinery nanuals. (Russian to English)

Z MAME CE EMPLOYING FIRM OR AÑENHY

Forein Irade Publishing Fouse

Moscow, i. So So Ho

I MAME OF SUPERVISOR MiT. MedTedyeR

?. SAÜARY OR EARNINGS

jD. CLASS, GRADE (lE FOCArE SArTICO)

30J

PER mOnth

road-bullding and construction

10, REASONS FOR LEAVING

Repatriation

• INJan.,

8, 7996 to AL8.,

Hr.10

¿ NAME OF EMPLOTING FIRM OR AGINITSCHONETIIC-

" 1953'

Research Institute ss Construction &

ADDRESS IVa., SeraRi, Cils, Sienio, Coumery)

Tead-su luld Hachurer;

Frunze subank.cat, house do. unknown, buscow, les.roe-

4. KIND G OUSINESS l'achinery research and 3 NAV Or SUPErIsOn

foreign taade

If. Katner

S. TITLE GE JOS

EARNINGS

Se::for enginec:

•En month

•13U

CONTROLAD MUNACE

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECTION LA CONTINUED TROY PAGE 6

DESERIRTION OF DUTIES

Servision of Rive transiators. Head of tra siaters cureau. lanagerent,

editing and translating fros Russian to Englisa si construction and

road-balding cachinesy nazuals, trade puslacations

I REaSOORLECpletion Of tanslations into Englis

9195096860,1933

NAME OF ENT-OPING FIRMCE ASENEY

Bausan Boro Road Repair Dept.

Sirores

"tra, Loscow, V. S. S. 3.

NALE OF SUFERVISOR

Road

CE @USINESS

& sewer mainterance

A tananoy

a TitLE or sender engineer

Y. SALARTER EARNINGS

IP. ELASS. GRADE IS Paderal

Service)

100

155001

• DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES Engineering

subervision si regar joss,

surveying,

designing of saall streets and sewers, plarzing, contact with fastories

for paving jobs, estizates.

TO. FEASONS POR LEAVINS Reduction of forces

TE. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGEOGY

Randatul, 1949 to Pebo, 19501 digaway vonstructos wept.

CEr. Siere, Counsry

ason saw gabal, aise lio. unknown, Moscow, to so so R.

A. KIND OF BUSINESS LaPiLaCt Je of

¡S. NAME OF SLPEREISDR

concrete

Do not reverser

6. TiTLE OF JOB LaGorator? assistalt

T. SALRET CR EARNINIS

a DESCHIPTION OF DUTIES LEbEratory testing

60

E CLASS GRADE IS Forceral

Service)

of

concrete and concrete components.

10 HEISONS FOR LEAVING

Reduction of forces

€ METER OF ONES CHEDITE OFSALSO YEREMEN SERVICE RETONE OP. CARE TEE

D-MADE YOU EVER BEEN UISCHARGES CA ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANT PISITION

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCURSTANCES MMICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLUM' TES NO.

IF YOUR ANSTER TO EÍTHER OR DO TM QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS

---

## Page 20

SECTION I

THEUATIEDIAL

MILFADATOA:

AITOFIRES'ROOTAI}

& iT DEFERRED, GIVE DEASON

MILITARY SERVICE

T. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS

DES & SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSION S. SELESTIVE SERVE NO

.S. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NI. OR DESIGNATION AND ASGRESS

T. CURRENT

CHECKIA)AS

ARROSPRIATE

SERVE=O

MAVY

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD

ORPAST COGNIZATIONAL MEMPEOSHIP

AIR

FIRCE

- 0A51

,MERCHANT NATIONALiAIR MATIL

UARI

MARINE,

GUAAS

i GUARD

30594.091:6

JC53 A.

.1041-101

152 75 02739

127)

15-7730.0011043, 72,5025 2 18t, -1887 ra 6H2

CATE SEPARATES IRON EXTENDED AITIVE DUTY (PASS nerVICO

PEACES POSTA GREAT ENDED ACTIVE DUTY INUS ; ONE:

1244

• petter war,

, FAST SERVICE

PATE GRASE DE CAN SAUCE

it..

CLORES- SERUKE

XA

CHADENT SERVICE

KA

PAST SERVICE

LOMART NECORDASTIT

FECIALT

6_

63" eat s

EMOTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY CO

& SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE MUMBER Ill nOM 88RNTT2 prOsO Ela

CURRENT SERVICE

NA

TITLE

sust.

14

Arter Tractat lon was sent to arres

coTer: torrica)

sent to

directed

to

Kiritars

eatation untll sest., 1742. Chea

infantry Scool. Active service until worded in

-cto, 1943. Then in hospitais and reserza a:til Septo, 194%.

12 CHECK DO TYPE OF SEPADATIGN "HOM ASTIVE DUTY

HONORAGLE DISEMARIE

GET REMIUT FUM SERGICE

DUDLE HARDSHIPS

RELEASE TO MASTINE SUTT

.I.

SET GENENT FOR CONSAT DISABILITY

OTMER:

RETIREHENT FED AGE

: RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY

13. EMETH INI COMPORENT IN OMICH YUU SERVED

OTHER (includine N'5)

I, HELITARY RESERVE, MATIONAL GUARD AND ROTE STATUS

REPESTRIE

• YES

¡YES

_3. ARE HOT NOT A MEMBER OR

YES

NO

& IF YOU MÄVE ANSTERED "YES" TO ITENS 1, 2 OR 1 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELON

MASTECÇHOS

NATIONALEWARO

COASTSUARCI

NATYROTE

INDICATE ROTE CATEGORY MINO

jarA ROaCE

AIR

ARUT ROTC

AIR FORCE ROTO

BER

& CURRENT RAN, GARIE OR

¡" JANE OR ADOOINTHEMT IN SURRENT

7. FIONRATION DATE OF CURFERE RESERYE ORKER

RATE

CHECK IRI CURRENT RESERVE CATESORT

READY RESERVE

STANDEY 'ACRITON

ISTANDEY (Inestine)

RETIRES

FQMART MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPICIALTY (N00

11O, SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY IRIS E IN

LAnatOr AND TITLE

ASCAL AND TITLE

BRIET DESCRIPTION DE MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

12.

YOU CURTENTLY ASIIIMES

DESERVE.

ATTARMED

NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAI

YOU A MILITARY MOBILIJATION ASSIO

MUTT

vES!

1619

YOU

AUSUERED "VES® TO ITEM 1E, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY

AND ADDRESS

XO

VES

89.15

ANSOERED -YES" TO ITEM LA GIVE UNTY OA AGERCY

AND ADDRESS

SERVICE, VEARS

MONTHS

17.

OMERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECOROS KEPT:

---

## Page 21

14-00000

Section XIi

2: Hon:

Shchogcleyva

Lcisejeva

Abr. 12, 1940

12 Solsrava Piorers:2yag

6. Hoscos, ÜSSR

wosectg

ESSR

• Unkrorn

".=.

12. 1915

14

to

25 - X4

13- Hiescow, USSR

10. IE

14. ESSR

3: lugenie

Yolsova

None

5. 1950

6. Koscow, USSR

}:

Dorsitor es of led cal College

tinkacre

NºA

11.a lininoun

12. 1924

•14

to 25 - XA

13. l5scow, USSR

Rese

lstkina

None

10. Tik

14. ESSR

Ar-ch

nicico

1954

6. Hoscow, ÜSSR

Station laininstaya, Pozranichraja

Deceased

273. 24,1960

rescow prosisce,

10. Bioid clot in brain

12. 1924

11. 20 Pratudiskaya 11., 1:50="13- ilknowa

14. ESS3

to. 25 - ка

ig Ceimin

---

## Page 22

4-00000

SECTION XI

FIMANCIAL STATUS

P. ARE YOU ENTIRELY IEFENDENT DO -JJO SALAIIY

I YES

2. iT YOUR ANSOER S'NO" TO THE DESE STATE STUDGES OF OTHER INIONE

DEINSTIT

konmouth County Nailoral basis

3. 5190.105 14STITUTIONS MITM

#NICH YOU MAVE ACCOINTS

AII=IIS /CIls, Sente. Corin)

Long branch, dew Jersey

A. MAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PET¡INES ECA, BANKRUPTCY.

IVES

5. IF YOUR ANSTER IS "YES" TO THE REOVI GIVE DARTICULARS. INCLUDING COURT ANS DATEISI

MARCE

Bugene Arzon

*. JIDE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

ADDRESS (No., Strol, Ciry, Stare)

22_Coamun: Community Drive, west Long branck,

1114w. 46 St., Bayonne, li. J.

235 Albert Pi., Elberon, i. J.

Abrahen F. Waldman

7. 5O YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FEIN IME UNITES STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA JOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT

AIT, DENSION, IR COUPENSATICO! TO MILITIEY CA NAVAL SERVICE"

_irES

_ANO

B. IF YOUR ANSHER IS "YES" TO TRE SIOTE QUESTION. GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

EE MOM WAY CHARGRANCES OR CENESSES DEGE SUeSCONTES IRECT MEREST CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES: OR iN

YES

(11 enmaTe "V2S, limier dolalls on toparado she or.)

SECTION X"

MARITAL STATUS

1. PRESEMT STATUS (Singie, MamoC Disomed, Secoratol, Divorced, or Ariled) SPECIFY: liar-ied

22 ENe TO;

Get.12,

Eugenie Volsova, divorce, no children

WIFE. HUSBLYD

OR FIASCE:

I: you hare iren carind zure than once - including annulments- use a separal- shett for former mife os

husband errat dale requent below for all previous marriages. Il cariage contempialed. fill in appropria'

inforT.4:200 {00110.7ie.

(Las:!

3. MAME

Bella

STATE ANY OTHER NAMES EVEN USED

Sella Hacberg

•ilstein

Aaron

INDICATE CIRCLASTANCES (Includine lenden Of (1T) UNDER WMICH ANY

OF THESE RAMES MERE USED.

IFLEGAL

CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS

(Where and by arter outhority).

USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 1$

OF THIS FOR TO RECORD THIS INFOR-RATION.

B7IR 24, 1563

A PLACE DE

MADRIAGE /CieN, Slare, Counter)

Long Branch, io J.

ADIESS DEFORE VARSIAGE IDa, Jerade, Cier, Seart. Coumers)

260 iarshall

court,

long franch, jew versey

FATE OF DEAT

16. CAUSE OF DEATH

riodstatt road

12. DATE OF BIRTN

1927

Parshall Court, Long Eranch, jew "ersey

1B. CITIZEMSMID

Ü. S. A.

ronashur-az, Poland

SECTION XII CONTINLED TO PAGE 10

---

## Page 23

4-00000

10 -

rEs

¿IF BORN SUTSIDE T

•- EATE OF ENTAY

uly 15. 1.

16- FORMER CITIZENS: DJI

Counter rees

Displaced

T9. OCCUPATIDN

Housewife

XX COSTELES FROG FACE S

is. PLAcE or feW toris

7. 86:5.48

CITIZENSMID :B. UMERE ACQUISED CY. SLALO. COURTY)

ehold sets and on

21. EMPLOYER'S CR BARESS ADDRESS (SO: Scroor. City. Siasa, Courer

22. DATES OF MILITARY SEALICE (From End 10-37 160. and Ye)

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE

NA

24. COUNTRY BITE ANICH MILLARY SERVICE AFFILIATRO

73. CETAILS OF OTHER GCVERUMENT SERVICE. US. GA FOREI

•SECTION XIII

CHILOREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1. PROVIDE THE FOLLIDING INFORMATION EDO ALL CHILDOEN AND CEDENGENTS

GIVE

FELATiENSMID

CATE ADO PLACE ON GOIN CITIZENSHIP

Beila aron

w. le

Foland, 1227

Michael aron

Joe lincoerg

SOn

6011 4

ACORESS

I je se ie!

car Siali

LonE Branch,

Sane

SOA

Same

Steven linche=s

SOR

5x330:

puse 22, 1957

LE. S. A.

Saze

UMBER OF CHILDREN "Includi

aln and ade men the

3

• NUNSER OF OTHES

БЕРЕМдЕнТ5 псіітв «рокал

Moosers.

PIC-I UNS DEPENS

CHILDREN

OFAGE

THO ARE

1

SECTION XIY

1. FULL MAN'E (LAX:-FEAr-tolle)

Philip (ressha) Arron

S. STATE OTHER NAMES ME MAS USED

FATHER /GIve same infaezaion. doe Seenlather and or Guorisas on 8 separate sheers

LIvISio

S- DETE OF DEATH

6. CAUSE OF DEATH

і но.

IMDICATE CIRCUNSTAACES ISCIUOTER lOrI el MCA, UNDER SHICH ME MAS

EVER USEO THESE MAMES.

LEGAL CHANGE. GIVE PARTICULARS (WhATE

and ty what astsortitt

USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON DAGE 18 OF THIS

FORM TO RECORO IMIS INECAN

& CURRENT ADDGESS- Croa LoAl DoreRo, il doinarod (80, Surel, Cliy, Slala, Couron)

1412 icean Drive, Aot. 11,

Rari Beach, -1a.

T. DATE OF BIRTH 1330

10. 1R DOSSOUTSIOE US - DATE OR ENTRY

11. PLACE OF EMTAT

rey York

12.

Russia

15.

OCCUPATIOM

18. DATE US CITIBERSMID

A. PHERE ACQUINÃD (CHrY, SeRiA, COOTEry

ACQUIRED

inanown

Uas70t

Retired

18.

PRESENT EMPLOYER (GIVO lANI enDIOTAY, ll FEDRA la CACHASaS on uperstogerd

Self-esplojed

DI. EMPLOYER

FOR-dAY I COMES ON FATHERS SUSINESS RODRESS IN SELF-CURLOVED

loans Drive,

are logatcare, No s.

1A. DATES OF MILITARY SER

BRANCH OF SERVICE

LA

HiA

80.

COUNTRY

DETAILS DE OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, US. ON POREIGE

Mone

---

## Page 24

4-00000

SECTIONXY

3. 1.r195

2. CA-SE CE DEATH

ЗЗА2RІСВ

B. STATE DINER MAMES SME HAS USED

lione

INEICATE CIRCIOSTRO CES INCHARTÀ VORSI 16 INA) SUJED PRICH SHE MAS

EYER USED THESE DAMER IN LEGAL INANGE, SIVE PARTICULARS (DEAN

-SE EXPOL

SONCE PRONIGEO CA PAGE 1O DE THIS

FOOM TO RECORS THIS INGOWATION.

8. CURRENT ADIRESS - GIVE LAST ADDREIS, IF DECEASED IVO, SCreAL (iT7, JeSTA, CORnO)

1412 Ocran Drive,

DATE OF BIRTA

Shenedrin, -1as: Province, Bussta

•.

CITIZENSHID

Stateless

10, IT DORM OUTS:JE U.S.- DATE OF ENTRY

111. PLACE CE ENTRT

Uninon

12. FORMER CITIZENSAIPISI

Unin ein

(Connertieo"

13. EATE UIS CITIZENSHiD

LA NMEDE ATGLURED (CITY, SCAtE, COUROY)

Jrisnow

15. OCCUPATION

Housewife

17, EMPLOYER'S D'ISINESS ADDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELT EMPLOYES

HA

1B. DATES OF MALITARY SERVICE (FrOSTeNd-TO;

LIA PORTEN SI SEMANE

21. L: TAILS OR OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, US GR PCOTION

FIA

SECTION XVI

T. PULL NAME PLAINFIrAr-MiSdia)

2, RELATITITALO

APON BIENE

¡A. CURRENT ADDOISS (NO, Se700i, City, Zone, Stole, Cousury)

brothet

22 Cormity Drive, Nest song searche

dierd iezsel

1. CURRENT ADDRESS (NC., S000l, CiTV, 2A5%, Ziaies (OORETT)

Tita AGE

YES

I. FULL NAME (LAs-FEst-Middle)

2 HELATIONSALE.

A. CURRENT ACCAESS (VO, SETeRS, CLY, ICOA, SCOlA, CORSOn)

1. FULL DAME (LON:-"raI-MIdde)

2 RELATIONSIDO

9. 6101965

TE. AGE

TES

*C 1

& CITIZENSM:D ((00527)

6. CURRENT ADDRESS (Na, Screal, Clly, ZoRa, Staza, Coctory,

So LITIAS

TES

2 RELATIONSHIS

&. CURRENT ADORESS (MO, 507801, Cily, Zona, Seeto, Couron)

T. FULL NAVE PLASAF ITE: MAISE)

« CURRENT ADORESS (NO, StrOel, CIrY, Jona, Stara, Cornon)

D. FULL NAME (LORET GArMIClO)

6. CURRENT ADORESS TOA, SIADOR, CITY, XeRA, JleRa, CoNTRyi

• FULL NAME (LORAT FORMIddIa)

A. CURRENT ADDAR88 ING, SPrOol, CHY, Jona, Seata, Comen)

2. RELATIONSANT

2 RELATIONINTO

& RELATIONSHIP

A. AGE

TESt

• то

R. ETIIRMSMIO (COURRTY)

TOES Tº0

8. CITIZ EMIMID! CoMReTIS

a Lires

VEST TOS

D. ETTIZEINSTANO (CONDOTY)

VES i

=88.

---

## Page 25

4-00000

SECTION XVII

FATHER-IN.I.AW

8. LIV:a5

MISER IRE

...-

..

STATE DINEGORITESTE

MASUSED

EDEO USED THESE LINES.

and by shar

I FURN TO RECORU INSIFORUATION

3. DATE OF DEITM

8. CA-SE OF DEATH

- 1541

Feart disease

LEIFE OHICHMEMAS

LEGAL CHANTE, DIVE

FAE-ICULARS (UbErO

SONITED TO DAGE RADE THiS

CURRENT OR LAST

rosalisto

Square 12,

co.rashur-.22g

Pola-d

PLACE OF BIR:M 'Cisy, Seale, Coumrs

Polan:

•I IF BID GUTI-LEUS.-EATE GE ENTRY

9. CITIZENSHIP

Polish

HA

1D. SATE

Ü.S. CITIZENS.D

AILINED

14.

PHERE ACQUIRED (Cit, Scece, CONTITy)

1S. CECUOATION

SECTION IVII!

1.

MOTHER-IN-LAW

IVES JERE " DATE OF DEATH! O CAUSE OF DEATH

STATE JIMES AQUES SHE MASUSED

Hose

conco-cano

E¡DICATE CIRCUMSTAGEES. (INCHOSEE JERSEY Of SITE) UNDER AMICH SME MAS

EVER USED THESE SAWES.

IF LEGRI CHARTE, GIVE FARTICULARS:UROTO

1139 Mhal BUCHORITA LiE EXTRA SEACE PROVIDEO CA

PASE IS OFTHIS

FODA TO RECORD THIS INFORMATIDI.

*. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS ASIN, SeRpel, CiTT, SPAle, (CUrITy)

Unknow

Polisk

L. FORMER SITILENSTiDISY (COMETION)

13. DA: E U.S. CITIZENSHIP

• 14, HERE ACQUIDED (CHY, Stace, Country)

Ig. OCCUPATION

RE

PaL PRESENT EMPLOTER (GiTO IN ENCOYAI, il HOCTerESt.

i jo decentre or anemployed,

SECTION XIX

RELATIVES BY BLOOD.

MARIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER IT, LIVE ABEOAD.

121 ARE NOT U.S. CITIZ' IS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNWENT

GOREITE VULOSIA

S. AS9RE3S 3E E0-0:9Y IN ANNIH RELATIVEGESIDES

Sobruist, iSSa

E. EITITEVSMID "COUNT)

L332

AJE

7. FRESJENEA

once etery 2-3 jears

uncle

5- EMPLUTES BY

Governest

A DATE DE LAST CONTAST

Septander, 1032

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. A5E

B. A CORESS OR ID-ATRI IM AIIN PILATIVE RESISES

3. EMPLOYED BY

T. FREQUENCY DE COMTACT

& DATE OF LAST EONTACT

FULL HAVE :200-52785-1916154,

2. RELAT-INSMID

3. AJE

& ADDRESS DE IDLYTAY IN THIEN TELATIVE RESISES

5. EMPLOYED 8Y

CITIZENSMIDICIANTS

8. FREQUENE: 25=06:ACT

& DATE OF LAST CONTACT

FULL MAKE

2. RELATICASHIP

3. АБЕ

ADORESS OR

•RELATIVE YESTES

S. EMPLOYED BY

CITIZENS-ID COURTI

1. FREQUENET DE CONTACT

@ DATE DE LAST.CONTACT

SECTIOS TIT CONTISLED TO PAGE IS

---

## Page 26

4-00000

LECTION HIT CONTITED IDLU FAGE !?

6. SPECIAL REMARNS, IF ANY, CONCERAN, RELATIES NOTES NO SECTION XIA ABDUE

SECTION XX

T. NAME (RONTENTIO)

2 J. ADDRESS STa, SONeR, Ciry, Sance, Careery)

I NAME (LA29FJRSTICIS)

3-5 8500495292, Smart, Carv, Suese, Causer)

SECTION XXX

2rs. C. l. Arnold

Laverce Elm

ToLzult, Arcre

Meazer, "itch

Stanelgan, Laurence

2. LIST FIFE FEISONS IN THE

+2084-8--783-57105t9e)

sucker,

Jeroze

Fostein, Stariey

taws, soward

Scter, ==30

Dirgie, doka G.

MAME

+2001-80558-52-79-1258

Celtaltau, *arey

saron, Altred

Lehrer, X. S.

RELATIVES BY BUDDO; MAFRUATE OR ADOPTION UNO ARE IN THE LILITARY OR CONTI

ERICE CF THE UNITED STATE:

RELAI ANIMID

J. AHE

I TURE LUS LOCATIN OF SENTICE IL AE

2 GELAT DASHIO

13 AGE

A CITIZENS

À TYPE ANS LOCATICE DE SERVICE GUI dO

TS. AGE

¡A TIPE AND LOCATION DE SEDUCE IN LOONEY

REFERENCES AC_UAINTANCES. LND MENHEIRS

BUSHNE35 ALOFESS

RESEME AIITESS

214 zay Ter ETe.,

Celtecere

Pepto 350-45 Prann-3,

2723

2.00 Zeala Eve.

5=0az 03, 1o E.

79 Madisos Areas

AS LiE 13,1.7.

SCIE :2220402

232 Lence ates,

tong

rarch, Jo de

4oh Ersacray

115 FaTE ATe-2

Long

Erasca,

Biteron, 1.

ANT KIA VOL SOCIALLY-NO: RELATIVES, SUFERVISCRS ER END-ETEES

SUSINESS ADDRESS

RESIDENCE RICTESS

Nia. 507971. Calf not Sses

"Ta_597741 (50990950644)

114T Brastay

31. Lesce drea

1L0nz Erasch,

Long Search

25 - 25712-6 A7e.,

Unknown

best Leas Fraca, 1.

..1

Ziy Lenut dre.,

Urinara

Iaz Eranch, i. d

571 Joey

Eatentora,

ani crarca

.. S.

laurelt saginesrig Co. 34-25 159t5 Place

7?

ladison Ave. , REC

GABORS AT YOUR MOST RECEDY AGRAAL RESIDENCE IN PRE U.S.

BLIIMESSADIAESS

RESIDENCE ANTISS

15500.521970 Cret anal Statel

"No, Senee (oo and Disney

Part forsouth

7 Yarshal: out

Long

Red Sara, St3.

In tract,

Red Sari, i.

UrjenchI.

one couty.

Lone Branch. 3.

•13.

---

## Page 27

4-00000

SECTION XXII

CLUBS. SOCIETIES. AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

DATES OF MENDEDITO

MATE AND CHAPTER

SECTION XXIII

RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

ADIRESS - LAST RESIDENCE FIEST

Asiancar, Sirenne, Cory, Seala.

CoNcerTs

250 larszall Court, Dong Branci, Jew Jersey

3i Cear avenue, lung Granch, Lew dersey

32 Bolshaya Monerstaja See Foscare De So Se Re

IPCLUSINEJATES

FROU

april,

Sent.,

1262

Hove,

1961

1960

June,

1946

1903

cresent

ti-e

1:53

sent.,

1552

07.8

1351

1500

---

## Page 28

4-00000

SECTION XXIY

HEREAT

ADDITISNAL INFORMATION

REUNITEO STATES

ESTATES

SEERS evORCE CR VIOLENCE TO DENY PERSON

2. IF TOU HAVE ANSFERED "YES- -O THE ABOVI QUESTIN ERPLAIN

TES

1re8

A. LF S0. TO DUAT EXTENT!

1. 2623

• E.. IF SE. TO UMAT EXTENT?

PATOE CETS FRAES

MEMBER OF. CO SLIRO9TES. ER LAS ANY COANEGTIDES DITH A FOFEIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN.

ITES

IF ANSHER IS "YES", GIVE COMPLETE DÉTAILS

MAVE APPLIES ICA EM

KEEPERO

PEESPER FOLD AN

NVESTISATION OF YOU, INDICATE THE NAME OF THE

STRUTTIS.

KOTE LEECIAL HERETO HOES Do follo Gracie lill a li pore do be into save requested lon ooe

Lorea in a sediod enroiop

ка.

HARONG TO DERE DO THE DOTE OR TERRE AOR ONETEE ARE SORRO

" SECTADANCE NITE COUSPECT STRECTONESVETE, MATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE

CORDANCE UTT™

VES

VES

! Х'но

cong

SECTION XXV

ANE: 1 141-4160-20965

PERSOM TO BE NOTIFEDIN

CASE OF EMERGENCY

Bell& Aron

jersey

SPOOR CRY, LONG SROiN COMET - INDICATE NAME OF TIM OR

12. RELATIONTE

NO

21-2325592

BUSINESS PHONE HQ O EXT.

NA

ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTRFICATION

4916141

•83 .

---

## Page 29

SECTEMSAVI

CERTIFIATION

CNU ARE MNSFEMMED THAT THE CARRECTP-ES: OF ANY STATEMENT MRJE IN THIS AFFLICATION

ILLSELVESTFATEI

ominszo cond soai ret.

frzoa, 8x31 De 70,009 ros ol m

zplrestane, l aido unserstarad tinoe omy tolse titane-a 100e nerpin toy do punistocie by

au (U.S. Code, Trei.le, socrion N'CI,

". DATR OF SICMATUAES

AMATURE LE ROPLIÇADT

C 422 5019-4

ii-nas

1.SIGRES4T /Criy End Srase

Meg uraes

Lorg ürarch, ev iersey

Rulla Anien

MOITE: l'en 1be 1011091T4 DNNCe lin dU9o LacaLio Malerasce toos Cocrinoed lit Dy secirno dnd dem Bunter la dibera le releres.

BU9 PUN DUTA 6? INA ODS Ol :1A: 4I32-1 TARETRO1 il NIILIDOA) SDOCE 10 ITGLITTÓ ISE EATTA POETS ILE SATE RIRE AS, 218

30499 520116

$93 307

Fon dor, lit4 to i

1949

Pechnical ibsary of descow sity soviet

5:27 13, Hoscin, 20 =0 S. 3.

mnbra], techaical 1eis=aat100

irso "acaiiaskaya

Seni cy

Lbrar:an.

599 per zoatà

Publicat1on ei sonthlj balleila 11 Pieid Di ai1aipal woses, roai anà

street corstrac:ion

mi raintera.re. asciitectire. city olzming and

oter vors connocted with the Inicipality. iipervision oi trenty irea-

Janca translators and abstrestees (inglish to Bussian)o Eranslation arà

ciltozlal bors from Bnzlisi to

uszian.

Iuii due to reduction te forces.

sestion ult - 4 Prer.jis zzriaze to sol Mircterg, deceased Dec. 12, 1953

sie adelitionel enclosed strid

Seetsios kil.

tuen g Chi se

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SUPPLERA

to

of

IRVING AGON

During the years I spent in the soviet Union : had nany fri:nds.

A-ong then were v ters, journalists,

engireers,

dictors and professioralg

In different leids. It wouid be very discicult

is list ali of thee. Fer

Instance, dari g the last year - set a new nesehtour in the buildin? i mved

into.

he was a professor in the field

il econceics. His rais was Earssy ard

he told re many thIngs mich i never kiad at-ut curcernira tre econ-ic

tasis of the Soviets sten. He aoted trat with ar industral latour

exceeding te labour force of the 3.

S. A. by 100% the productivity of

labour end irdustrial productica vesthree tires liver.

While studig in sigh scic:l i becaze acauai-ged vih a well-trovn

norie producer - Alexanier Stolzer. He is the brother of cre of tre stidents

with whon I was freidly in high school. Eesides, trough a friend i. college

I net with sereral riders and jourralists such as Jykhovichny, Slowiskoy,

und others tritire in the field of satire.

People working in cla rifted

fields of troustsy never talk abest their

work. And

even though sy relatives

through ey rife

in Russia woried in the

fieldor aviation and electronics i did not know anyting about their : orto

I only lew that me tiger-

3193 222240 4d

unIted near Siicl (both in Wiscon), Her brother's naze is jer Minkin zad

her

br:ther-ih-law's care is Boris

bergradsty.

During i e last years I worled as a transiator and zet uany people

wao were born in the jaS. A. Arong thee are lerza Shirman. Paul Shirzan,

Grace Dietca-cagay (nee Sgovie:) - nox in italy, ane-ary otiers.

---

## Page 31

14.00000

Section XX

5. PETEY. ETCE: 3

Ps, :53

cousin

33

Governent

et his in 1960 and 1561 and 1962,

during the stater

"Et Wita hin tre last tire in

rosie marshan.

---

## Page 32

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

201-759831

Irv.ng autus

FBI

Unnumbered TEX

Jul; 18, 1963

FBI

F€105-28€2; B#105-100312

2/28/64

FBI

4#105-2962; B#105-100312

5/25/64

Unnunbe redi

Sept 10, 1965

FBI

FBI

Unnumbered

July 24, 1969

Unnumbered

Sept. 19, 1969

Newark, New Jersey

Newark, New Jersey

Newark, New Jersey

Newark, New Jersey

lashington, D.C.,

New Yorks, N.Y.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

AFFROIED FOR RELEASE 1983

CA LISTENICAL-REVIES PACGRAM

Irving bIon

260 larshall Court

Long Iranch, lew cersey

Jure 21, 1964

30X = 1390

lain P.

Hashirgton, D. C.

20013

Coatianca:

In. answer to yor advertisesent in the lew Yuri lines

of June 21, 1?64 for a Russian Iirzust capable of traislating,

malyzing and editing publications, as well as laterpreting,

I lived in Russia for Over 25 years and gradiated

college there after the beginning of tie verzan jussian wa.

After 1 years of continuons atiennts to leate Fusiu

repatriated in September,

19i2. I' az a native-born citizan of

the inited States of Acerica.

of Translator's Bureaus fe: twenty years.

In russia I worked as a translater, editer a lead

abstractirg and selection if techrical articles

for publication is significant. My litial saiay regurarests

sincerely yours,

Fing Ca.

Irving Aron

---

## Page 34

4-00000

Resure of

IRVING AREN

250 "arshall sourt

Lor.?

srarch,

lew tersey

Telenhora: :211) -222-1592

Born Decerter 4

Harried, 2 children

1917, Brooklyn, li. I.

loscow diesbile & Ashway institute

Bachels of Science,.

1.

Blaspelt ung neering Co., 79 lad son Ave., a. Y. C.

to present tine.

core on a desse, intent coyotators, drainaga

2.

J. S. 3. 3. Cha-ber of Vozerce, loscow. Flee-lance tech-

nica: transiator and editor

üsian to änglish 1952 to

1952. Left due to centriation.

Reo::t3 frr International Congresses, trade publications,

mantas, dan corstruction, road-buildine ard annstrater

30

Poreign "rade Publishing Fouse. Free-lance technical trans-

lator and

editor - Russian to English 1956 to 1962.

Same as in iten 2.

4.

Sei-tific Research Inst tate of Construction and Rad-Building

50

6.

7.

Head ce Iranslater's Bureau.

lanago.ent,

ed ting, iranslation -

Russias to English: construction and rcad-building zachirery

manuas, trade pablications.

Bororgi Road Repais Departeent hediction of Iorces.

Seni:= engineer 1950 to 1955.

Pield work - surveying, estisator.

concrete Plant,

Laboratory assistant 1749 to 1959. Reduction of forces.

Checkáaz quality and co=position c° concrete.

Technical Library of Moscow City Soviet.

Seni:r Librarian 1944 to 1949. Reduction of forces.

Read of Translater's Pureau

- Erg-ish to Russian. Publication

of neathly inforsation bulletin.

Part-tine translator • Hydramlic Power Designing Institute

(mocrienergoproject) - English to Bussian 1:45

to 1952

abstracting).

Intersat on congresses, can poets) 192 crapests 50s

Book translated and published in l scow in 1958 by Fireign

•Langnages Publisting House: "Precast Concrete In the Soviet

---

## Page 35

14-00000

TIr:g

AATOD

j larsball

court

•esrarcia,

Hew

Jersey

Mãi

ixir

BOI $ 1390

Majn

P.

0.

washingion, D. C.

20013

icaciicisdait.roo.ine.nu.cala.tuw.sitn.tarpniwaini0.d.adid ilidcirier igd

IR MAH

---

## Page 36

4-00000

260 Harshali Coat

L0TB 2=8.01

er reiser

Teléprore: (221)-222-3512

1917, 350-6150,:. 1.

Carried,

Bachel I

If SciencE, 1741

Institute

I has buan Jeceiter 4: 1917 1n Broilin, MoToil Cater, Pailly isa ras

erative organization.

soccessivel? = 5a55e 9-a 1991,

a bite:er and married la a revisa coca

parents..

E cucerter tre age u 13, i left die tossa mant ay

In Tussia dried

as an agiorozist in 81rs-3-0fa7.

tended scrool in irabar uS..

ow farily metcared to tre

To Sono die

= Le illress 12 =7 Tou zer brot er.

In berte. seag. 1032 ke

retired io Russia. l, father thea worked in co: striction as a marager, ars

later arres

in a sare factory as a cheerrier. ly auther sorted as

z Tenazes

In a public c1ring

2o0d. i gregrated nigh schoel

indiscin

4*1936 ErS dES

acented es a stidert in the l: scor Automobile i

Egaley Irstitute. In 1937

IT carents and bottier returras to the

Ao I renaired in 1i030i1 25 1

rished to 22=13t =

courses ir college.

gradiated in

Eater tre

cegirrarg

Eat.

as a superirderdeat to a raaszy

septercer, 1g-2 I vas seat to iulitary schoch 17se5d t2=e=

¿ has in aci-ve dity as a platon ofeicer. Tas

I was cerated upor tares times, tre last tire is

Tizzang or tre

Moscil C:=y Siriet.

Ia 1749 die to

the snall nucer of siblicatiors "et=

receited froa acroad ay sos tion in theliarary das elizizated. I tren ju.

zieuröä.is

forces

120 as a

Jest.

seni:r engineer: in

Bore Poad Bep2:r

At this tire Ivas dire-ces

and re-tar.ied.l'n first rife ves z

boslexeeper.

killed,

Fer step fatzer was a =a'= in the Soviet Arajo to Has la-er

o? her stepfather wes

Shcregolzere. !?

secord trife (anicer nare -

Sie hid the fact that

ratbolcaist.

she could nit lave children and ve rese dinarces

zenth

after =y certage. In

1952 7 set Fose

irrina, ve vere cericialty

carried chly a lei sontrs ie?'re cur sca has barto

The cause

-ê this beizy

ont carriage was the fact that

tassern in

is an avatice engineer and her bruter-in-lay vorts in tre peda a cice-

Ten Juicer considered trai vi acrriage rould tass

latives. In 15-5.

atter the biith or ou son ve began harding in applica-

tions for = 0

risa fron the soriet Governent. At first

ve teres to

get out as risitors to I? parents. de received ou first resisal at tre

time of the Engarian Fevolt.

Ip till 1957, her of fairer come to visit

ve cuntimed is hard in applicatioos for an ex trisa as risitors. lter

1957 ve continuen to band

in applicatiors arp.-ricatei? every sit zoates

to leave the soviet Union

per-arently. ird ve continues to regulari? rear

- refusals.

I conside: that

the ag-ratatios corrected mtr these refusais

150l. Lasoniy in

Taly, 1952 =7 -Or and

= received elity sas.

I filled

fided feet a plant in

Ine first ansier t: the applications

out in the

E-bassy

born citize:

was a liongusta

migrant viSa.

igneals:& the

Dept. of

state,

arte ay a-rival

rest-red ay rative-bin c'i-zerstig.

In 135=

Eausan

due to a rediction

furces i lost ry star? too 15 i=e

pair Seat. At this time

was working as a free-lance

trarslat? in the los.s.?.

Chanter of turnerce ard as a pari-iize tra-s-

Intr in freecegers are ect.

intil cancars of 1956

Ivorked for

cIganizatio=s.

= n 1956

begen voicing as tre read ci the -arslat:rs rege.

the sciert:fic-esearch I:st-tute cf Co-struction and 8:ad-5c-101.5

lachiners.

1i:on maring firis.ed tre

translatics of all canoeis in tis

field

continued

trarslat'.

sarairg

left te

soviet trion

as 3 free-iance

ard ed t:: fro. the

Crasher if

c-etce,

t.:e

Preen

Trace

Publishing oise,

the ?-re gr

Languages publishing house, indr energyroleet

and of er cigar zai ors reou ri:g

translaters.

Afte: retirairs

f'rst I turied f = Stellina,

vidad od and van

ico as a civil entineet.

At

Guetc..dal

fre=

10709

122 and cien fros

to trig

19%4 I mied fer

Seldin,

69 tread G.., ?ed

"ew erseyo.

t:o last several zontrs I tate

been w=т!.!...

an a f'es-lance

basis tita dERAC! corpuration (io34 sch Sto,

Philadelp. 1z, Pa.) as an costiact-r.

li.

---

## Page 37

4-00000

SUPPLE TITT

tO

ERE Saac:

Durire the gears I spent in the soviet inion I had tang fri nos.

Rong then were writers, journalists,

encireers, lictors aid professiorals

In different sieids.

•i would le very siacioule

Instarce, duri g tre last year =

io iist ali if ther. ?or

et e ner netchious in the buildir? : aved

into, He was a professor in the field ef ecstasies.

Fis nard was Earssy ard

he toid ze Fang tnings mich i beter load ac-ut concernira te econ:=ic

tas's

aê the soviets ster. Fe noted trat rith an industrial labour

excesding .. e jacoir force of the i. So A. by 109: the procuctivity ci

Labow ide stutt a codicter vasthree ties laver.

became acorarted tih a well-mova

People sorting in cla cified fields of troustsy rever talk aboit their

tori. And even troiga sy relatives treach =y sile

in Russia worted in the

rieldoz aviation and electronics i did not know anytiing about their orco

I only knew that maritale benth? 101'39

wirkeà rear Sircl (both in dese:).

Fer

brotter's rase is iev Minkir and

her tritter-in-law's zaze is Boris Eerstaásty.

During i a last years i morted as a transiate and set zany secple

Who were born in tre i

• So Ao Arora taco are terza Saiizazo

Paul Shiran,

Grace Dietce-ücogay (nee Sgovic) - now in

ital?, andrary otcers.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

Section X%

3.P3IT. SUGE: Z

:S.3

CSS?

coisin

33

Governtent

et hia in 1960 ard 1951 ad t2 te laste seria

igó? (surrer)

---

## Page 39

4-00000

727.:

260 tarshall tet

Tew cersey

Telephore: (201)-222-3552

EJIn Dece:Der 4,

1917, Brosklyn,:. 1.

Eactely of Science, 1241

rarried, 3 children

loscon Aricecbile.i

nighrey irstitute

I was burn Decenter 4, 1917 1a Brouklin, do Coly Pater, Pillip isca vas

secessively a farcel"=a 1931,

erative ciganizatice.

19293 2er tre age of 13,

a bitcher and Horried

1n a

revisa coug

I Left fur Bussia sith 37

parents.

Patier in Gussia wirred as an agroronist in Birst-djar.

tended

school In Krabar: vst.

canuary, 1735,

I. So io

Gue

fandly retcrred

to tre

to te

ZileSS c0 =7 JOu-ger DICt-er.

In Sente. berg. 1932 ke

rettered to Russia.

later verved in a sare factorg as a sheerarer.

father then verzed in eo structien as a

sanager,

and

nother soried as & zanezer

In a public ol-ing coco. I graduated high schol

in*: 5008 1a 1935

accepted as a stident in the l seou Autonobile i Figaray Irstitute. In 1937

II parents and beit-er returrej to the .

• S. A. I zeraired in toseir as

wished to finish zy courses in college.

- graduated in 19-1, after

*re

begirnirg of ver with

germany and was sent as a sure'intendent to a :3asay

Bat.

In septercer, 17:2 I was seat to lilitary School in loscow. Alte=

Tinüshing 25 a cr.

ut.

¡has in active duty as a plato.n officer. I des

scurded ict.

1943. i was cerated upor thres tires, the last tise in

liorarian in the

Jeonnical Library of tre

Hoseiw City Surieto in 1749 due to the swall nuncer of publications :erg

received sion abroao ay pos tion in thel-crary vas elizinated. I then go.

a jud as &

if forces i gut a job as a

enrineer in the bauran Boro Zoad

Repe:r

Depto at this time i vas diverces

and re-carried. ily first rife bas a

bookeeper. Her step father was a adir in the soviet Arej. to Has

ie.er

killed,

17

172,

during wIi.

i? her step?etter wes

"as a ethologiste

Se hid the dact that she could nit lave children and we were divorces cre

nonth after ly ariage. In 1952 I ret Pose

"fraina.

married Chl? a few zontrs hel-re cur

SCh has

corne

lie vere officially

The cause if this delay

in out carraze vas the fact that i vasborn in

the tinted States.

Rex Brotze:

is an aviatic.

engineer and her brother-ir-lay

words in the

field c2 elec-

Her zoorer considered trat ur marriage rould tarn

27 wife's i2-

latives.

after tre biith ci our

son we began harsirg

in applicz-

tions for an e

visa fros the Scriet Soverment. At first

ie tries to

get out as visitors to I? parents. de received our first refusal at tie

tine of the Engarian Revolt.

ig till 1957, when oy father case to visit us

we continied to hard

In aool:cations

for

an ex't risa as risitors. After

1957 we continen to band

in applications a'prorizatel? every sia =satis

to leave the

soviet Union

peraaaently.

Arà we continued to regularly rear

refusals.

I conside: that

the a raratio's corrected with these refusais

1961. andoniy in

at let careered eat sate dreaded 2der a

daly,

1952 zy -on ano

¿ received erity sas.

filled in tus different applicatiors.

ansver ti the applications

I filled out in the l. 3.

Elbassy in lioscow: as

an in igrart ard es a rative

born citizer. ras a lionquota imigrant visa.

the beard if Appeaisif the

Dept. of taie, afte my arrival, restered sy rative-born e tezenship.

In 1955,

due to a reduction sa firces i lost ay staff doo in tre

Bausan

1o2d " pair Jest. At this tire i was working as a free-lance

translat e in the LoS.S.? Chasher of lnerce ard as a pari-tize tra-s-

latir in gercenergero ect. intil vanuary of 1956 I vorted for these

organizatiors. in 1976 :

began working as the lead of the --arslat:rs Dept.

or the Sciertif:c-research

Irstitute of Co-struction and Road-Suilding

Hachiners.

Arter having firished tre transiation of all sanuais in this

field i

continued forking until : left the

Soviet Inion as a free-iance

translat-r ard ed't:: fro the Chascer if

on erce, the ? re en Tase.

rublishirg

House, the

Preigr. Languages

Publ: shing house, azdr energagrajeet

and of. er cigar: rations requ ri::g translaturs.

After retirildre

to trel. 5.

f'rst i roried fi stelling,

À.

rit a

ich as a civil enzineer. At

Ira-d:od

and

Yan

Suetondal fres ior.,

to Dec.

19.2 ard cen froa

january:

1903

to dady.

1914 I worled

1962

icr.

Blauvelt Eraineering C..

Atod? At

xesent

a srira cor arold do Seldin,

69 Orcad St., ?ed

2327-

en cersey.

Pirits

1r3 last

several sontrs I Late

been wirhl.? an a free-lance

basis wita

BREAC! Sorperation (1634 Arch Sta,

Philadelp. 11, Pa.) as an abstract-s.

---

## Page 40

4-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REMEN PROGRAM

TO!

SEM: !'"ILL CHECK CLASSIEICATION TOO ANO

19518--1F14.00

SUDFIDLNTIEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

MAME AND ADDRESS

TTOM

INITIALS

• АСТАЗИ

AF; ASYAL

CONNELAENCE

DISFATCH

FILE

LIAFORMATION

BECOMMEMDATION

RETERM

- SIGNATURE

Kemarks:

Phane

7

1115 file. jete wiel

state + FBl files.

militià, te.

FROM

¡OLO MERE TO

RETURN TO SENCER

MAHE.ADONISS

aNO PHONE NO.

DATE

COSFIDEATIIL

SECKET

1 237

---

## Page 41

4-00000

BON: I WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOO AND T SUCHET

L8022-/181600

LONDITI 1

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

MAME AND ADORESS

досі би то зн

: ACTEDA

AFFEBYLL

CCUMENT

CONCGERENCE

I INFORMATION

RECOMMENDATION

GETERM

1 SIGMATURE

Remarkas

Phone yens file.

Haned tole woe

Koned

Need maid more

RETURN TO SENDER

O PIONE NO.

DATE

LICLASSIFIED

1741ª. 237

COSFIDESTIAL

SECRET

100»

...

---

## Page 42

14.00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEN PROGRAM

]

Irvirz Anron

260 i arshall Court

Long Franch, liew Jerse?

Septezber 29, 1964

Bix 1390

liain post Orride.

washergton, D. l

20013

Dear

I greatly

appreciate the ti-e you spent with se

durirz our interview in Priladelphia. My Intentions to vork

for four organication hase not. harged. I an very busy at

my job at present and carrot,.

ferent couy of my autobiögraphy. I hope that this kill not

unduij influence the consinsions of your organization re-

latina to my employment.

Yours truly,

Tring Cline

ITTI-& AIT:n

---

## Page 43

4-00000

Irving bron

260 Hars-all Court

Long brain, sew iersey

'Eez 13%0

Fzla Post

office

Washington,

Do

C.

20013

---

## Page 44

14.0000

Irving Anron

260 Jarshall Court

Long Eranch, liew Jersey

Septerber 29, 1964

NI. Paul Peters

80X 1390

Main Post Office

Washington, D. C.

20013

Dear Mr. Peters:

I greatly appreciate the tire you spent with me

during our interview in Priladelpbia. My intentions to work

for jour organization hare not. hanged. I am very busy at

my job at present

and cannot, due to this,

sond yoü & dif-

ferent couy of my autobiography.

I hope that this will not

unduly influence the conclusions

of your. organizatioz re-

lâting to my employment.

Yours truly,

Tering

Cleven.

Irving Aar in

---

## Page 45

4-00000

Irving Arron

260 Hars-all Court

Long brasca, lew jersey

SIF

111

TIG!

ini-

"=. Paul

Peters

Ex 1330

Fair Post

Office

Washington,

D. C.

20013

C..

---

## Page 46

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEN PROGRAMA

Washington,. r.C.

26 August 1981

'DeBT Mr. AmrOD:

•1103: 1547

FrOM I to 4 sepienDer,

duct interviews for the position.

I uill phone you upon my

arrIval in Philadelphla to arrange a mutually corvenlent

schedule for an Interview with you.

Should you still be Interested and if you have not si-

ready forwarded the material to me, kindly frepare the forms

I forwarded to you some time ago.

Also, please bring with

you the photograph and the autoblography.

Thank you for your interest in our program.

Cordially,

Administrative

• Cfficer

sox 1390

Hain Post Crfice

- Washington, D.C.

20013

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Washington, D.C.

26 August 19€4

Dear Mr. Amron:

I am making reference to your reply to my ad for a fo-

¡on with the U.S. Governoent as a Russlan language lirguist.

Fron i to y sepiener, i will be la inidadciphia to cou-

duct Interviews

for the position.

I will phone you

upon my

arrival in Philadelphia

to arrange a mutually corvenient

schedule for an interview with you.

Should you still be interested and if you have not al-

ready forwarded the material to me, kindly precare the forms

I forwarded to you some time ago.

Also, please bring with

you the photograph and the autoblography.

Thank you for your interest in our progran.

Cordially,

Paul Peters

Administrative Cfficer

BOX 1390

Main Post office

Washington, D.C.

20013

---

## Page 48

4-00000

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REÇUEST

TO: 25D!201 Section

1T.:8 STATION: Thir

SECRET

MOTE:

ar gat

=AT₴

ВАЛОСИ

30e

Guide

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CH ASTORICAL-SEMEN FROGRAS

08 201

•ide

оl 96х0.

ted to rea

21164

85.0g

CHICA

= *9

PIQUEST.

201

EE NOT

CHECar

7. DARE T

10.

ТУРЕ

13ME

(Laus)

OESTRIITED

4. SOURCE DOCIMENT

(Middle )

8l0ss!

(Firse)

NIRE VARIAT ICES

(Fired)

(Middle)

i tries

COGARIIATION DA INTELLIDENTE ATFILUNTIIN

CONE

LUDE

ACTION GEST

20. CHIFTCAVA

21- CONDENTS

cact

SECONDART DESK

HAND CALY IF TRUE TAMB AFFEARS ABO

12. ВІСЛАТИНЯ

ГОДУ

1.82 831

IDA-

SECRET

201-....:p.

119)

adis thie.

---

## Page 49

4-00000

APPROVED FOR SELEASE 1933

CIE NISTORICAL-LIVEN PROGZEM

кч.л0

"REPORT OF MEDICAL HISTORY

DESTON S 128 ESTELA, DE CAR MS CAL DES DA BRULAZIO SE 190

Anron, Troing

15 89711isssm01on

7/4/EA

1.50.1

7

---

## Page 50

-00000

HEPCLO GABEhrA 314/64.

ifaree _

---

## Page 51

14-00000

ATANdEN FOTI+O

. AIT.

BERENT 19 -21 2r.34-5

ZEPORT OF MEDICAL HISTORY

•La=: 0009-

Inom

Anron, mong

De0 Hashat Cr, ist, Brent,

T. 361

Male

• Trine c

11. FACE 13 717--

Dec 8,1417

Вітя. квус, Лі т.

S GRAMOIN, TACL-I 1R TRIMMIT ROC ADIREIS 1298 Aarus el Mil

Mall (Ribel, M D.

Becherst, ditmderter

назато

155-e

35 3100

1.:1

1.214

$0

SIS-TES

2

16 go=d

==

00.103

14416010 159

T14/E4

[II CASANZA" DA LOIT

Bella

Merkel et lung Brust, 1l1

vc,

fE:

5527-X14 - 1

7 Кінн, СіК

і suт-ra

N' INCH DESS DE BRENTA

f. 1.9073

$713.09-35 SATHE TiTEACE

N.+229813598519-1 stuis

JACRIE =9 0750.047 20475

5R-574

8294-7-3156.3.

1V +32026787194699

FELINENT ACHSESTITT

TELS A SUITO BILATI

IN: BAr J÷43A 100

1 %

+107.8600+3515

-ASICABITES

MAS KIENEY TROLELE

HAD TEARS TRO-ELE

NEO STORAET TRU-ELE

20:11.194 YANSIST

SEER SALARE

(Checkesch scom)

M3s t

:=5.0. 0=61423 AVI1

JECHIEEIL

222 11

A FRESÇA PECTAL CIRASE

ÉTiEG ENTER PINE LI FINTION

TRISLENI JA TAURO DE MiNATTANHES

O GEGOT UNEN GR LIES DE MEDONT

ASTHEITIS CAFHE: MATESN

Tier saar. co1-455 165909757

L655 26237277 50 17769I2

171N2.015-43.963: 291350.

105305 202. LES. FINSER. OR TOE

. HINSCARdi INJEXSE3

rI.1 TO. EITR

В СонНі

#5+595-119-09

MAS A :REIMAL CISCHIAGE

0. EN 1208 -5100

MES PRAT. L METS: " ATIA

V:T-9LSA7A 1111IE869

З. ОНЯ: 8 TЭ-0 Й-Л. SCC:PATKR

reehos eal franglado,

rondos

---

## Page 52

FES

I.50-N0011099k3

so +99595555 SeITE

+ 344-03275-69774081

Erit:+: 50-84 178-9175° Eal:

STET 3+9: 29499986587696s

I1T +551+4 W- 5-00 5-t1F

ado at at en cert =

7 48

te sync die 2204 a

Đi :

192-10327

Cohe

fitnes-te

IA.

PILETO, TREST

. I7

Б9-RE705)

w71t0

29 NE 5

AGES

57+7

Толо-.і

In excellen beath.

a part bustrs o Phall

unping which is sore-desallag.

---

## Page 53

14-00000

THAT SPACE

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1093

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

POJ SATE (PAllI,

51y 5, 1964.

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

LiSTRUCTIONS

1. Assor all percises corplerely or chest appropriale bor ll Jestion is dol explicabi: write oy's", Erite "l's-

koonn" deit aí you do nol ison ibe desore doi ll cannal be dotained (ros personal records. Use blank spice de

End ol icer los trita delails on say questca lor trich you hast insulliciens space.

2 Type, price or trice carefally; illegible o ecompiele fores will col receive rocsideration

3. Consider you dessers carefuliy. Your splatare al the ead of this fors wall ceruty to deir contectsess Carefa!

corpictios d all affiicabie quesioes niü persit serier of jour qualifications to te best advalage.

SECTIONI

GENEFAL PERSONAL ADD PHYSICAL DATA

r.. Б.

2. AGE

1F20

46

FEMALE

50E5-

1÷5%

TS9L39C61095

"7. ECL J9.05 MAn

blue

iB. TURE CCHPLERKIT

l'git

beary

..:.

L

---

## Page 54

Г

7

pages

2-13 all deleted.

L

---

## Page 55

20645.44

they lies

---

