# 124-90135-10229

## Page 1

124-90135-10229

* 2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DECLASSIZICATICN AUTHORITY DERIVED ERON:

EST AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 05-24-2023

BY: 254393442

198032

Mr. Nasca

LUNG.

Airtel

ALE INFORMAZION CONTAINED

HEREIN

NCLASSIETED

& SHOWN

OINERWISE

To:

SAC, Miami (105-2102)

2 -

San Antonio

From: Director, FBI (105-82298)

BLOY GUITERREZ GENOTO, aka

IS - CUBA

NIASERRET

2/7/61

5/14/94

Classified Foy

SO MALIGAT (JAK)

Declassify on: DADR

ReBuairtel 2/6/61.

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY 3,4

DATE OF DECLASSIFLCATION INDEFINITE:

On 2/6/61 CIA requested that we ask subject if he had

been in contact an Cuba on January 10

-(U)

course of your

interview concerning subject's associates, you

(V)

should work in this question in such a way that subject will not

be aware that there is any special significance attached to

these names.

For your confidential information, the two foregoing

Individuals were Connected with tac CIA operation and were turned

... (U)

in in Cuba. CIA speculates that subject may have "stooled."

VHN: msb

5-30-48

(6)

CLASSIFIEDEY 5668 SLD/HSR

DECLASSIFYON: 25X

NOTE:

ReBuairtel authorized interview with subies (JFK)

Subject was

formerly connected with anti-Batista organizations in Cuba and

has closely collaborated with Castro.

and

he has been taken by INS to the San Antonio area.

He recently sought asylum,

has been instructed to interview him.

San Antonic

data to SA Papichi]R (u)

Airs. J.Roman furnished CIA

STENCTES ANT

FIED

OFFICESS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Tolson

APPROPRIÀ.

Mohr

Parsons

ADVISED BY ROUTING SLIP ON

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMIATION

RECE

I THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKERS

Belmont

Callahan

KP 5-26,;

Conrad

105-22275

DeLoach

MAILED 9

T72999

81

Malone.

McGuire

Rosen

FEB - 7 1961

FEB 8 1961

Trotter:

Evans

COMM - FBI

W.C. Sullivan,

Tele. Room

ingram -

Gandy

2 FEB

196.4 LETYPE IN 4

CO/COR

"SEBRET!

ENTIAL

NN 50953

DooId: 32336834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTECEITI DEBTED

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-24-2023

BY:

254496142

saloon Section

CONF NOENTIAL

AGENOTES AND T

OFFICES

112808

SEA"

APPROPRTATE

OUTING SLIP ON

REC- 60

+X-108

99

ADVISED B

BY LIAISON

CASSIFIED BYL6922. WNP/DR 62178

Date:

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY 3

Marol 10, 1961

Director

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION IMBEFINITE

Central Intelligence Agenoy

_ (U)

Attentione Deputy Director,

Plone

V

Crone

John Edgar Hoover, Direabor

Subjecte

PLOY

NAG/GAT (JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEUMERNAL ACURIZY : QUEA

117201

BX0277

00H21

SHOWE

Tolson

Parsons.

Mohr

Belmont.

Callahan .

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room _

Ingram

Gandy .

Classited

kuy

Declassify an ORON MY2S,

Reference is made to your request of February 6, 1961,

vic Iloison channels, in which you requested sunject be interviewed

as to wkether ho had been in contact in Guba on January 18,

Song Mateus)

Ihis natter was casually brought up during our intor,

view with the pubject on February L6, 1962, in ouch a manner.

as not to arouse any suspicion on his parte

Subjeet stated he

mae not coquainted with any of these indiuiduals, although le

was possible that he may have not them in Cuba..

Subject atated

he opent the two woke prior to hie flight from Cuba on January

290l, in Havane preparing for kis departure.

30p

te indicated that

hts only contacta during that period were with the groupor

Delose aides who eccompanted hin to the United states.

1102

This 10 for your

CIA HAS NO NS JER

CLASSIFIED EX

67668 SUD/NSA

DECLASSIFIC TOO

ANTO

23300

XHALEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

MAY THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACELS

subject is prominent Batista opponent and ?l-28

supporter who dejected.

sen Andonio is interitening nine JozA

asked us to interview him concerning ony contact he may have

had with the two above mentoned inquiquals

These two individuals

vere connected with a CIA operationtend were turned in in Cuba.

speculated

subject may have: turned them in

MAR 16 1968,

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT, L

AL

SECRETI

HW 50953

DocId:32336834

Page 2

---

