# 124-10101-10003

## Page 1

124-10101-10003

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER:

124-10101-10003

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

44-24016-1ST NR 2156

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WANNALL, W. R.

TO:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 04/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

EVANS, JOHN, ATTENBOROUGH, TORBOUR, ALLEGED PLOT TO

OVERTHROW GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

09/24/1997

STATUS Redact

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 50953 DocId: 32153465

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-15-2023

BY: 3043/98142

6010-106

W÷1902 EDITION!

GSA •GEN.

REC. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOT

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM

:

W. Fro

DATE: April 11, 1967

I - Mr.

C. D. DeLoach

Josed had freed

-

Mr.

Ro

E. Wick

Mr.

W.

C. Sullivan

MT •

R.

Mr •

W.

Mr.

A.

Tolson

DeLoach -

Moh:

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad -

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter i

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

9803

SUBjECT

ster

668 520/GCL

JOHN EVANS,

also known as

Torbour Attenborough

INTERNAL SECURITY - JAMAICA

H DEGLASTONCATIGN ANDIOR,

FRELEASE CF.CIAMNBM

BAAATION

SECRET,

IN THIS DOCUMEN

FaR

this pg + nEXT

LAC/UTS: ONi

subject, now in Jamaica and possibly mentally

deranged, claims to be planning revolution to overthrow

government of Janaica with assistance of unidentified

United

States

"syndicate" and help fron Communist Cuba.

CONTAINED

CLASS!

DECLASS

ASSIPTS

We are

initiating investigation into his activities while

he was

in the United States, 1953-1966,

for benefit of

K3/10/97

I Jamaican

police.

For information,

185987

(4)

*Central Intelligence

Agency

• (CIA)

has

been

by Special Branch,

Jamaica

Evans, a Negro Jamaican national, was picked up at

Polica service seate

small boat between Jamaica and Cuba, lost and

out of fuel

FORMATI

ALL TW

HEREIN

EXCEP

OTHEr 38

and food,

September, 1966.

He claimed to be in the

process of attempting

to rendezvous with unidentified Cubans

with whom he planned to travel to Cuba to collect lunds to

be used in

the overthrow of the jamaican Government..

Such

кти!

funds were to be used to send organized groups of Jamaicans

to Cuba for training for this purpose.

Evans claimed to be

working with a "syndicate" in the United States which is

to finance a communist revolution in Jamaica.

He claimed

this is the same"syndicate" which in the United States

Thad caused Jack Ruby to kill Lee Harvey Oswald, the assassin

of President Kennedy.

Evans further claimed to be enlisting

aid of Jamaican criminal elenent to organize an extortion

28011488-9055

101/11

1Sp9401

ORIGINAL FILED IN 10S

racket to shake down some 100 off-track betting shops in

amaica, proceeds from which were to be used 1011

Evans claims to be a film director,

the United States where he lived from 1953 to199am7 14Jg6nican

police found evidence he had lived in New York City under APR 14 1967

an alias and entered Jamaica in Septenber, 1966. using false

documentation.

He maintained he had engaged in civil rights.

activities while in the United States.

His German-born wife

and child reportedly lived in Binghamton, New York, until

January, 1967, when they joined him in Jamaica.

Investigation

to date by Jamaican authorities has failed

to substantiate

any of Evans' claims and his

true identity is still in doubt

AMS: 1wf

(Xu)

(7)

Exe

or Declassification

ONTINUED - OVER

SECRI

84 APR 241967

V

HH 50953 DocId:32153465 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. W. C. Sullivan

Re :

JOHN EVANS

SECRETI

Information furnished concerning Evans indicates

he may well be mentally unbalanceds Despite this,

claimed connection with a United States "syndicate" which

caused Ruby to kill Oswald and his alleged major involve

ment in a plan to overthrow the Jamaican Government with

Cuban and

"syndicate" assistance along with his indicated

13-year residence in the United States dictate

that we

conduct investigation in eitort to determine his activities

while in this country. CIA intends to pass to Special

Branch, Jamaica Police Service, pertinent results of our

inquiries E

"(0)

Bureau files contain no information identifiable

with Evans. By separate letter, New York and Albany being

instructed

to initiate investigation.

Other offices covering

Evans' claimed United States residences instructed to review

their files and police and credit records. -Pertinent results,

appropriately cleared for passage to Jamaican authorities,

will be turnishea to ClA for relay to jamaica Police service

ACTION:

None.

For information.

was

2

wCsd.14,1

50933

DooId: 32153465

Page

---

