# 124-10291-10026

## Page 1

124-10291-10026

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10026

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 97-4691-7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1964

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, PLAN, OVERTHROW,

HAITIAN GOVERNMENT

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/24/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6(4)

INC LHM, REFERRED TO INS

NH 50953

DocId: 32306886

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

MAY 1862 EDITION

5010-106

GSA GEN, REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum

Director,

FBI (97-4691)

12/31/64

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

AMPROPRIA

AND FIEID

ADVISED

SLIP

JED

EXCEPT

SERTAN

ASSIFIED

AST

ALL

HEPFIN I

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SEC

INSTITUTO CUBANO DE LA DEMOCRACIA

(CUBAN.. INSTITUTE OF DEMOCRACY) (ICD) ;

IS - CUBA - HAITI;

— CUBA - HAITI.

(00: MM)

HetE

Remy airtel and LHM to Bureau 10/2/64.

Enclosed for the Bureau are eleven copies of

a LHM, dated and captioned as above, and suitable for

dissemination.

Two copies were sent to New York in view

of their interest in this and related matters.

Copies are being furnished locally to INS; CIA;

G-2; Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, U. S. Department of

a-1k6t

105-85631e

OF ENCE FILED IN

State; U. S. Coast Guard; 3 U. S. Customs, (1-Miami, I-Reg-

Ion II, I-Key West); U. S. Border Patrol; ONI; and, OSI.

PETER J. NERO.

CLUS MIGS, who was

UNCLOSURE

- Bureau (Encls. -11) (97-4691) (RM)

Chasified by

PE MACIGAT

(1 - 2-1666) (FACE)

Declassily on: OADR

6/E5/83

(1 - 105-95677) (Haitian Rev.

Activities)

# 212,326

23- No Pork & = 37-28963 (3058 4. 8) 2 AN A

13- Miami (97 444)

GLASSIFICATION AND/OR

122165) (CARLOS BRIO SOCARRASSRELLASE OF GIA NE BLATION

105-2855) (MIRR)

IDZILATS OMS

Ciassified per CiA

FOI/PA # 21,48

APERAL #

ON ACT A

1 136354

2113/83

* CIA

7114184

VEGK

Lette

D.

105- 2856) (BOSCH)

134-689) (VIRGILIO SANCHEZ)

5m6-25-97

105-9469) (JOSE ANTONIO NACEO) 57-4/69/=

105-6842) (MACEO Btn.)

7-31-97

- (5FK))

105-1742) (Anti-CASTRO Activities)

105 4039) (FACE) (ELADIO DEL VALLE)

2 JAN 4 1965

105-8591) (Col. PEDRO VALDIVIA)

105-9349) (JOSE ANTONIO PAZ)

105-1597) (HRA)

2- 156) (ROLANDO

MASFERRER)

15 Dig-oba / DiA/USCG/eustoms

Copy to: CIA/Stute/BRa

by routing - 1-03 5y VHN/St

Date.

2 XEROX Copies MAde

SAN 121965/05-456271 Nail

i Ren, Materia

SECRETAL

REASON -F/C

DATE OF

REV

BY SPEGSALOMS

II, 1-2.4.

123X89

21,488

NH 50953

D001d: 32306686

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM

97-444

CONF SENTIALI

The LiM is classified Confidential to further

protect MM T-1,

national defense. (Wo

source of continuing value to the

On November 12, 1964, Miss HENRIETTA LORI, CIA

Miami, Florida,

¡ ROMERO was of operational interest to crAf

advised Colonel PEDRO VALDIVIA

(U)

Because of the inactivity of the ICD,.

this

organization case, as well as the cases opened by the Miami

Office on the individuals involved in the ICD, are being

closed. MM T-1 was very close to Colonel VALDIVIA, the

focal point of the activity that took place in these mat-

ters.

No

future.

unent activity is, antielrated in the neax

Colonel VALDIVIA has made no pertinent state

gents since being interviewed by U. S. Custom

in Miami.

As he is of operational interest to CIA, Ho

rther in=

vestigatIon is being conducted concerning him.

Cases

being closed are:

1 - "PEDRO ARMENGOL VALDIVIA ROMERO, Aka.

Pedro Valdivia (previously reported as

PEDRO A. VALDIVIA ROMERO in another matter);

IS - CUBA - HAITI; RA- (MM 105-8591);

CUBA - HAITI,"

2 - "JOSE ANTONIO MACEO ESTRADA;

RA - CUBA - HAITI; IS - CUBA - HAITI, "

(MM 105-9469);

3 - "JOSE ANTONIO PAZ VIGO, Aka. Antonio Paz;

IS - CUBA - HAITI; RA - CUBA - HAITI,"

(MM 105-9349).

Should any further information come to the at

tention of the Miami Office concerning the individuals

mentioned

above, the Bureau will be promptly informed.

Other Haitian revolutionary matters are being handled.

separately.

(x)

-2=

CONDENTIAL:

'SEO

ET

NH 50953 DocId: 32306886 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF ISTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

97-444

MIami, Fortda

December 31, 1964

V| 301509

CLASS. &

LX1 .

ROASON-TRIM

IT,

DATE DE BEVIEN

1-2.4

ALL INFORT ON CONTANED

HEREIN IS UVCLASSICISD EXCEPT

WHERE SHORT OTHERWISE.

31184

CONF

ENTIAL

RE:

INSTITUTO CUBANO DE LA DEMOCRACIA

(CUBAN INSTITUTE OF DEMOCRACY) (ICD) :

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA .. HAITI;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA - HAITI.

Attention is called to previous memoranda su

mitted in this matter, captioned

as above, dated October

2, 1964, and September 25, 1964.

MM T-I, a Cuban exile

familiar with anti-Castro

personalities in

the Miami area, furnished the information

set forth below:

MM T-1 has been in contact with Ir. Virgillo

Sanchez Ocejo and Colonel Pedro Valdivia Romero during

the period September to December, 1964, regarding the

movement to establish a Cuban govermment in exile in

Haiti after the Duvalier Government has been

OverthrOw.

In early October, 1964, Dr. Sanchez informed

MM T-I that his group had a

great deal of potential back-

'ing from various sources, but he was not specific as to

who was to back the movement

with

effective funds, arms,

Ships, or other material.

On October

1964,

there

was a weeting in the

home of Colonel Pedro Valdivial,

2940 W. FIs

FaSter Street

FRO

DENTIAL

BORN MORAL 29N4

GROUPY 1

Excluded fron

automat tort

SONATI ESPIRITUS, LAS

downgrading and

Ve2113 CUPA

declassification.

Classiffec

Declassity

on: "OADR G/28/53

326

ENCLOSURE

1621-

NH 50953

DocId: 32306886 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIRENTIAL.

RE: INSTITUTO CUBANO DE LA DEMOCRACIA

MM T-1 advised that on November 14, 1964, Col-

onel Valdivia left Miami without notifying, individuals

with whom he was in close contact.

He arrived back in

Miami from New York on November 24, 1964. Upon his re

turn, he immediately contacted Dr. Sanchez, inasmuch as

Sanchez was to

Introduce him to some individual of im

portance.

#(V)

Early in December, 1964, Colonel Valdivia

informed MM T-l that he had had no further contact with

his superior in Haitian matters, and that he had nothing

to suggest to further the Haitian movement. It appeared

to source that Colonel Valdivia had changed after his

trip to New York. He also changed, possibly, because he

had been interviewed by U. S. Customs Service and U. S.

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) at Miami.

MM T-1, at that time, did not expect any new activity on

the part of ICD, or individually on the part of Dr. San-

of the recent developments.

On December 6, 1964, Dr. Sanchez informed MM T-1

he had no new information concerning the Haitian affair

Dr. Sanchez mentioned that efforts were being made to ob

mention was made as to any possible source.

MM T-1, on December 23, 1964, advised

that he

knew of no activity on the part of Dr.

Sanchez, Colonel

vadalvia, Antonio Paz, or dose Antonio laceo.

Viaceo, the source stated that no mention has been made

of him since the original discussions were held with Dr

CONF

ENTIAL

Au)

NH 50953 DocId: 32306886 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONF I

ENTIAL

RE: INSTITUTO CUBANO DE LA DEMOCRACIA

hats

Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) ,

have not been active in the instant matter in recent

weeks, to his knowledge. XU

On November 7, 1964, Wallace Shanley, Assistant

Customs Agent in Charge (Enforcement), Customs Agency

Service, Miami, advised as follows:

To his knowledge, none of the groups planning

anti-Duvalier activity have departed for Haiti.

U. S. Customs was asked by the U. S. Department

o1 Justice to interview several individuals who were in

volved in anti-Duvalier activities.

On November Y, 1964,

U. S. Customs interviewed Colonel Pedro Valdivia, a Cuban

exile in Miami.

Pedro Valdivia

this matter by U. S. INS.

also advised that his office

had no record of Jose Antonio Maceo Estrado.

He added

this file may possibly be located in the New York District

Office of INS.

On November 10, 1964, Mr. Challandes, INS,

Miami, made available the

following information

file

from the

0f Pedro Armengol Valdivia Romero, INS File A12 415.

370:

uSCS

REVIEWED BY BEJFK TASK FORCE

CONF

ITIAL

ON 2-23-97 dab/GB

RELOADE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL/

NH 50953 DocId: 32306886

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONF PRENTIAL

RE: INSTITUTO CUBANO DE LA DEVOCRACIA

Valdivia

was born April 29, 1919, Sancti

Espiritus, Las Villas, Cuba.

He entered the United

States April 30, 196., at Miami, Florida, as an immi-

grant Irom cuba, through the American Consulate General,

Guayaquil, Ecuador.. Nis wife was listed as Alina de la

He has a son, Pedro Angel laT

divia. Colonel Valdivia's father was Lino Jose Agapito

Valdivia, Sacerio. His mother was listed as engracia

Mar ta romero Benitellas, Cuba.

his rather and mother resided at

Valdivia was

"in the Cuban military service at

Havana from 1936 to 1956. He was a Military Attache at

Port-au-Prince, Haiti, from 1956 to 1958. He was in

political exile at Guayaquil, Ecuador, from 1959 to 1961.

He informed the U. S. INS upon his arrival in the U. S.

that he was being sought by Communists in Cuba.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclu

sions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONFEENTTAL

NN 70953

DooId: 32306886

Page 7

---

