# 124-90139-10161

## Page 1

124-90139-10161

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/17/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90139-10161

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

NY

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1961

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH

50953

DocId: 32338034

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED TROU:=

EBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIZICATION CUIDE

DATE 03-20-2023

EX: 234333442

JoD. Donohue

Nasca

SAC, New Forh (134-5606)

REC- 87

Director, FBI

REBEL

SECR

TISR

6-1%

NY 3248-PSI

IS - CUBA

16.94

Classified

CLASSIFIEN

DEGLASSIFY

(ПК)

CADR

911324

For your information,

on 8/16/61 advised

on occasion CIA has utilized PSIlas courier

material between the United States and Cuba. @ This material

has dealt with CIA operations in Cuba. 6

Be alert for possible conflict of interest between

Bureau and CIA and,

if CIA's occasional use of subject in

any way conflicts with Bureau's interest, immediately

furnish full details

and your comments, observations, and

recommendations.

U)

During contacts with PSI, endeavor to determine,

without revealing the above CIA information, whether he is in

contact with any other agency. In this connection, PSI has

been connected with MRP which was of operational interest to

i a canch,

CIAO

It is possible est,

in his activity for the uff, was

actually doing work for ClA without knowing it since CIA

frequently operated

in organizations, such as urf, through

cutouts.

u)

Classife y sus swede

Declassig an: BAD ET

-U)

VHN: dcr

(5)

NOTE:

PSI is Cuban employed as comptroller for Cubana

Airlines, New York.

He has been associated with MRI, anti-Castro

organization, and has furnished New York with information

concerning the uRe and Cubana Airlines, including the manifests

of Cubana Airlines. Investigation of subject's background has

been favorable.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ATI, TNHCFLATTON CONTATNED

i• 1.

DECLASSIE CAPO% AND/OR

JAMATION

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Ingram

Gandy

MERMISE,

MAILED 8

AUG 2 1 1961

COMM-FBI

іМ ТР /

KP 5-11-98

L...

$*"

" !!

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

HH 50953 DocId:32338034 Page 2

---

