# 124-10221-10281

## Page 1

124-10221-10281

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10281

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 185-789-799

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 01/07/1977

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, BOMBING, CHILEAN AMBASSADOR, TRA, VISA, CUBAN

CITIZENSHIP, RCK

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 50953

DocId:32340888

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2 RUEAIIA 3461 SECRET

1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH TWO:

LA VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENI EMPLOYEE

UHO HAS ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORIS.] HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN NATIONALS,

T

CLUDING MEMBERS OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

Guilleemot Novo

2. ON 2 DECEMBER 1974 ORLANDO RE OS CH AND GUILLERMO AN O VA

BOTH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS, TRAVELED TO CHILE FROM VENEZUELA AT THE

INVITATION OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH,

JOSE DIONISIOS

SQUIVEL, DID NOT ACCOMPANY THEM FROM

VENEZUELA RECAUSE HE WAS UNABLE TO GET A VISA IO CHILE AS HE STILL

HELD CUBAN CITIZENSHIP.

cuba

3. THE ABOVE SURFACED DURING A RECHECK OF AGENCY RECORDS. IT

IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGENCY HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE

TRAVEL OF BOSCH TO CHILE.

40 CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2.

BI

#3461

HY 50953 DocId: 32340888

Page 2

---

