# 124-10224-10062

## Page 1

124-10224-10062

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10224-10062

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-128529-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEG, PA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/06/1964

2

SOUETRE, JEAN, AKA, BKG, RCK, ASSOC, MIL SER, TRA,

ANTI-DEGAULLE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NN 70953

2

DocId: 32298782

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-15-2023

BY: 3043/98142

CABLEGRAM TO PARIS

RE:

JEAN SOUDIRE

GOI

(U).

(U)

LIEUTENANT, U.S. ARMYCAND

SOUBTRE WAS ASSIGNED WITH TRENCH FOURTH

AIR FORCE. ALDERSON ADVISED HE HAS SINCE OCCASIONALLY CORRESPONDED

WITH SOUTRE, USUALLY IN FORN OE CHRISTIAS CARDS, BUT HAS NOT

RECEIVED CORRESPONDENCE FROM HIM FOR MORE THAN YEAR.

THERE ARE NO DIRECT FLIGHTS BETWEEN HOUSTON AND CANADA. NO

RECORD LOCATED FOR SUBJECT AT PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, HOUSTON, WITH

REGARD TO FLIGHTS TO MEXICO CITY DURING PERIOD NOVEMBER TWENTY-THREE

TO TWENTY-FIVE LAST.

BUREAU HAS NOT INITIATED ANY INQUIRIES IN CANADA OR MEXICO,

IT BEING ASSUMED FRENCH AUTHORITIES WILL MAKE THERE OWN ARRANGEVENTS

IN THIS REGARD

FOR YOUR

CONTIDENTIAL INTORNATION, BUFILES RELIT SOUFIRE,

AS REPRESENTATIVE OF CAS

DURING MAY, ONE NINE SIX THRES

CUBICT WAS SEIKING U.S. SUPPORT

FOR ANTI-DE CAULLE ACTIVITIES.

THIS DATA NOT TO BE FURNISHED

) FRENCH; HONIVER;, YOU SHOULD SUGGEST THAT IF NOT ALREADY DONE,

(PRENCH MAY DESIRE TO CONTACT CIA!

former French Arny officer who deserted and whe

Is nov rented be milltant member or locret homy organization

(French terrorist group),

is of interest to French authorities.

stens from fact that French have received information that subject

was in U.S. in late 1963 and left for Mexico coupled with fact

President DeGaulle plans to visit Mexico in mid-March. We are

conducting inquirles re

sybject as police cooperation matter

PIER 3, BRACKETES PORTiONS

NR. 437

Eps ci"

98/6/88

3/6/81

POCOMESDENTIAL

ENC. BT: D

I PROVED BY A C

NN 70953

DocId: 32298782 Page 2

(U)

---

