# 124-10221-10286

## Page 1

124-10221-10286

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10286

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 185-789-431

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/16/1976

PAGES:

2

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSA, LETELIER, ORLANDO, VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, ARREST,

BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HY 50953 DocId:32340893 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IRVESTIGATO,

COMMUNICATIONS-SECTION

NOV 16

TEL

ETYPE

VU. & EIA187

EIALDIIQA857

00 RUFBI

DE RUEAI IA

78118 3212057

ZNY SS SS,

FEDERAL GOVERNHENT

162000Z NOV 76

FIM

CIA

BO/FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

BT

OChILBomB

SECRET. CITE CIA 944136

ATTN: Ro K. MCHARGUE/GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

Assoc. The mo

Asst. Dir.:

v.

Ext. /...

Fin, f:

Gen: '1 ve

Ident.

Intril.

Leo :

Pla*

111.

DERGAN

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

S. &

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SE.=

Tr

RELEASE CE OF% INFORMALION =

HERE RACKETS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

SEO YESRA MARQUE

7-31597049

(JFK)

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE -SENSITI VE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS*:

INVOLVED -NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACT ORS OR CONTRACT OR /CONSULTANT S

ST-133

FIRC I - 31 2/03416-76.

BEG 87185-7892544

11917%

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF TH

NOVO BROTHERS IN THE

ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER:

* NQV 23 1976

IO SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH IWO! LA VENEZUELAN GOVERWMENE EMPLOY EAS

WHO HAS ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORISO] HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE (S

REPORTER. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN

OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

20 IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1976 RICARDO

MORALEX

NAVARETTE,

A HIGH OFFICIAL OF THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELET GENG EISAND

PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT ORLANDO

BOS CH

Venezues

AVILA

mue

HH 50953 DocId:32340893 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGER, 2-RUEAIIA 8118 SECRET

AVILA, SUBAN EXILE UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA FOR THE CUBANA AIRLINES

BOMBING, HAD TOLD HIM THAT THE NOVO BROTHERS HAD BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR

THE BOMBING OF THE AUTOMOBILE OF ORLANDO LE IEL I ER, FORMER"

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES. MORALES DID NOT AMPLIFY HIS

INFORMATION. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ACCORDING TO A NUMBER OF PRESS

непезлем

ARTICLES,

IGNACIO

ANOV O AND GUILLERMO

TO VO HAVE BEEN

CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA AS BEING

RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO: LETELIER. IT IS

BELIEVED THAT YOUR BUREAU HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE NOVO

BROTHERS, IGNACIO AND GUILLERMO.)

3. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: FIRCI-382/03218-76 FROMA VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED AND (S)

WHOSE INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS,

INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, REPORTED THAT SINCE HIS

ARREST ON 15 OCTOBER BOSCH HAD ADMITTED TO AN OFFICIAL OF DI SIP THAT

HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE NOVO BROTHERS IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE

LETELIER 'S ASSASSINATIONO)

40 CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-20

BT

#8118

HH 50953 DocId: 32340893

Page 3

---

