# 124-10301-10106

## Page 1

124-10301-10106

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/3/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10301-10106

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1499-118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR PLANS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/19/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

FS, BKG, ACA, PEP, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32309810

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 05-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

C-04 1199

1 - Nasca

12-10-63-

SAG, Miami (2-192)

ES

Director,

FBI

(2-1499)-118

APPROPFLATE

0975

AND IS

ADVICEC

SLIP(5

DATE

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, aka

Frank Fiorini

IS • CUBA

SECR

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Declassify on: PADR

789/10181

CLASSIFEE

Аті 24G

UNLADED TO SOCI

(190-16444-250

(U)

Enclosed

for each office is copy of CIA letter

captioned

"Frank Fiorini • Docunents,

and Maps

Correspondene Spomf

11-19-0-*hich Were Observed in 1 Briefcase " with enclosures.

Recipient offices will check indices on

• individuals

mentioned

in attached caterial as residing in their respective

territories and furnish brief sunmary of pertinent data

available concerning these individuals to Bureau together with

recommendations as to whether investigations should be

instituted on the individuals mentioned therein.

Recipient

offices

in addition,

review the names of individuals

JECTIC

whose addresses are

incomplete or who are identified merely by,

if the fragmentary

• information appears to pertain to the areas.

covered by recipient offices.

Miami is origin in this matter. For the information

DECLASCIFIGATICN AND/OR

AELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

КР 5-11-д вета,

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT

of offices, subject is prominent American soldier of

fortune?

who has long been involved in anti-Castro

information of Miani®

•GIA,

activities.

For the

on 12-5-63 advised it was making

the attache information

available to INs, Customs, FAx, and

r1tish authorities.

сілл

Enclosures - 6

2 = Denver

NNUN

- New York

Norfolk

Springfield

-. WEO

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room .

Holmes

Gandy

VHN: jal

(14)

(Enclosures "

Enclosures -

(Enclosures -

(Enclosures

6

6

(Enclosures •

ALI INFORMAXION CONTAINED

HARGIN IS UNCRESSIFTED EXCEPT DECL SSIFYO

WERE SHOWN OTHERWISE •

MALED LO

DEC 9 = 1963

COMM-FBI

-913

•AGEN

OFFICES

No:

(S) 0FO

JFK)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE

PAGE TWO

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY

REASON

бра тернок за

FCIM, II,

DATE OF CE

ii.i

DECLASSIFICATIO

10/10180-10

NH 50953 DocId: 32309810 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Miami

Lette FRAN SANTHONY" STURGIS, aka

2-1499

NOTE:

subject, American soldier of fortune

has long

been thorn in sidé of U. S. authorities primarily because

of his anti-Castro endeavors.

investigated by several agencies. L clA, on

obtained

so correspondence and case it constance

"advised it

locuments

appears to be complete list of his

cocomplete its contacts vienne.

his continuing appearance on anti-castro scene and his

involvement with others throughout country, lit is felt the

names of his contacts should be checked through indices of

interested offices as indicated above.

12-5-00 advised data in its 11-19-63

gIven to LAA

Sie connection that monste Tens sound tsunate s

the Items found in subject's

briefcase were air navigational charts of various British

possessions.

11,808

(U)

SP)MAG

LA INFO REMAINSCLASSIFIEC

KSPREVIOUSURNITCO MUR 25/S1

SPORTA GCL - 7211326 - 4/27/90

2-1499-118

J0953

DocId: 32309810

Page 3

---

