# 124-90019-10188

## Page 1

124-90019-10188

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90019-10188

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4623-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MX

HQ

DATE: 07/28/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS

ALEXANDER RORKE

DALE THORPE SMITH JR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

NN 70953

DooId: 32323546

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTECEITI DERIVED ERDUE.

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 304493142

No 105450111

SECKET

CONTUENIAL

furnished by subject and

stated he thought he had heard

somewhat sintlar story before, but was unable to recall where

ho had heard this.

have been

ron the locnl CiA Station.

He advised that ith

-(0)

would be practically impossible to identify an airplane landing

In Guatenala City for refueling, but advised that he would make

an attempt

companions:

• cassification done according to Siste duot eates 7/27/26

6/15/65 BRENDON A. BURNS, J., of the CIA Station,

Anerican

Embasay :

custenade City was acrisod of the informationa

furnished by subjoct and said it did not sound like anything he

had ever

heard.

He said the CIA Station had receivod no [c

information on

the sending of ammunitions fron Guatenala to

he sale & check of his records diselosed no identiflable

Cuba.

information on subject.

8) classifications dome accorcing to Stato lept. it des /24/8

On 6/15/65 JOHN T. DREYFUSE,

Head of the Political 1/6/87

Section;

Anerican Embassy, Gustonala City, advised that he had

never heard of subject or

the transportation of ammunition

declassued per sea

rustonala to the anti-castle forces in Cuba. & Villatay 8/27/2

On 6/16/65 ENRIQUE PERALTA DUARTE, Diroctor General of

Immigration Department, Guatenala City, stated it would

impossible to identity the pilot and passengers in the B-25

subject clained to have arrived in Guatenala

in

He said he did not thin's there were many places

in the country where such a plane could land.

He advised he

had never heard of tho shipnent of ammunition fron Guatenale

to the enti-CASTRO forcos in Cuba and stated it would first be

necessary

to snugele the

anmunition into Guatonala fron Mexico.

It should be noted that ENRIQUS PERALTA DUARTS 13 tho son of

the

Chief of Government of Guatenala 2) W

On 6/16/85 ALBERTO BARRIOS

, Assistant Chief of the

Judicial Pollce, Cuatemala City, stated he thought the name of

subject sounded familiar, but could not recall where he night

have heard it.

He advised that he would cause Investigation to

be made in an

attempt to identily the companions of subject who

arrived with him in catenala In hugust, 1904.

He said he had

never heard of the anti-CASTRO Cubans sending ammunition fron

Cuatonala to Cuba. /

on 7/16/65 Col, DONALD E. EGGLESTON Lend BRENDON A.

BURNS, J8.

adviood they

nad been unable to develop any le

information in this natter. (X) Classifis according to Statt Diast diel 8/07/86

COI

DONNAI

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32323516 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BC 105-4577814

SECRETe

CONFIDEADAL

7/17/65 ALBERTO BARRIOS stated investigation by

him foiled to identify the airplane by which subject claimed

to have

arrived in Guatenale or the companions of subject. (54

An inforation

copy has' been designated for the

, covers. subject's residence address.

COMMOFILY

CONFSENTEER

THATE? a SEURET

NH 50953

DocId: 32323546 Page 3

---

