# 124-10175-10039

## Page 1

124-10175-10039

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD_SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10175-10039

HO

105-82555-5TH NR 5578

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TITLE:

WANNALL. W. R.

TO: SULLIVAN. W. C.

DATE: 04/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

JR, POLIT ACT, US SYNDICATE

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH

50953

DocId: 32172220

Page

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED FROM:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 05-15-2028

BY :

E 54193242

010-100

M°: 19A2. EDITION

GSA GEN. REC

NO. 28

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

5/15/91

5668540

(57K

NED 23

DECLASSIT

MET

OTHE

-Dec

SEGRET

W. C. Sullivas DECLASSIFICATION AND/ORNE.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO April 11, 1967

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DeLoach

R.

E.

Wick

W. R. Wannallur

• Mr.

W.

C. Sullivan

5150%

Callahan

Conrod

Felt

Gale

Kosen

Sullivan

•ave

trattor

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

316/97)

EXCEPT FOR BRACILETS MIR.

E.

Lenihan

W.

R.

Wannall

JOHN

EVANS,

also

known

as

73г.

A.

H.

Torbour Attenborough

501 3420

FINTERNAL SECURITY - JAMAICANS U)EXAMP

DATE OF DECLASSIFIO

Subject, now

in Jamaica and possibly mentally

deranged,

to be planning revolution to overthrow

government of Jamaica with assistance of unidentified

United States

"syndicate" and help fron Communist Cuba.

We are initiating investigation into his activities while

he

was

the United States,

1953-1966,

benefit of

Jamaican

165289-

For information. fLU)

*central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

advised by Special Branch,

Jamaica

that

Evans, a Negro Jamaican national, was picked up a

small boat between

Jamaica and Cuba,

lost and out of fuel

and food,

in September,

of attempting to rendezvous with unidentified Cubans

whon he planned

to travel

to Cuba to collect

285|38/12/6

be used in the overthrow

of the jamaican Government.

funds were to be used to send organized groups of

Jamaicans

to Cuba for training

claimed to be.

"syndicate" in the

United States which is

a communist revolution in Jamaica.

He claimed

the same

"syndicate"

mad caused Jack Ruby to kill

lee Harvey oswald,

United States

of President Kennedy.

Evans further claimed to

enlisting

aid of jamaican criminal element to organize an

extortion

racket to shake down

some 100 off-track betting shops in

9-2

Jamaica, proceeds fron which were to be use geysuzon

claims to be

a tilm director

- the United

States where he lived from 19999011

olice found evidence he had lived in New

til under

APR 14 1967

alias and entered jamaica in Septenber,

1966, using false

He maintained he had engaged In civil raghts

activities while in the United States.

His German-born wife

child reportedly lived in Binghamton,

New York, until

January,.

1967, when they joined him in Jamaica. Investigation

by Jamaican authorities has failed

substantiate

any of Evans' claims and his true

stant in doubt C

ARS: rwI

CONTINUED - OVER

84 APR 241567.

SECRET

5th

14578

ORIGINAL FILED IN 105

HH 50953

DocId: 32172220 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandu WAS. N. C. Sullivan, - SERET

JOHN EVANS

Information furnished concerning Evans indicates

he may well be mentally uncalanced.

Despite this,

his

claimed connection with a United States

"syndicate" which

caused Ruby to kill Oswald and his alleged major involve.

ment in a plan to overthrow the Jamaican Government

with

Cuban and

"syndicate" assistance along with his

indicated

13-year residence in the United States dictate that

conduct investigation in effort to determine his activities

while in this country. CIA intends to pass to Special

Branch,

Jamaica Police Service, pertinent results

inquiries

files contain no information identifiable

By separate letter, New York and Albany being

instructed

to initiate investigation.

Other offices covering

Evans' clained United States

residences instructed to review

their files and police and credit records. Pertinent

results,

appropriately cleared for

passage to Jamaican

¡will be furnished to CIA for relay to Jamaica Police Service.

- (U)

ACTION:

None.

was/ured

For information.

-2-1:

SEXET

HH

50953

DocId: 32172220

Page

3

---

