# 124-10328-10029

## Page 1

124-10328-10029

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

• RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10328-10029

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 09/17/1958

PAGES:

6

§ SUBJECTS:

JOHN SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC MEMO

19.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32313355

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

Belmont

Donahoe

Llaison

MoSSburg

October 2, 1958

SAC,

wo ((105-4083))27u)

Director, rar 205-208141 98

EX-138

REC- 72

OMAR FAROUK DAJANT, was.

IS - LOADL

(U)

NIH TED EXCEED

WISEE SACKY OR SUNSE

1/1195

Grissies t5668320 rude

Declassity ear

Reurlet 9-17-58.

Your attention is directed

your file

100-23450

that sid resen

"Union tilas,

report of sA

John B. Van Etten dated 5-3-51 at Washington, D. Co, in

that file reflects on page sit that Aichare lounsend

Fatton was employed by Carl Marsant in 1947,

the year

that carzont was conuieted and sentenced for denying

membership in the Communist Party.

It is noted your relet

reflects satton was subject of aniuestigation by

your office in 1950 for possession of obscene films.

In view of derogatory information available regarding

Fatton, the Bureau does not feel he is suitable material

for development as an informant and authority is

therefore dented your office to investigate him as a

PsI for the purpose of possibly developing him es a double

agent in this matter.

Bureau is arranging for

interven of Isa sabbagh by another Government agendy

and resulto will be furniched you.

(U)

FEM: cug

1.1391

goyer reno some de to faint prepared by seal

9-30-58 re same subj.

N:18 1058

wa21049-236

thoran

Polson

Boardman

Belmont .

Mohr

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

jamm

Trotter

Clayton

nie. Room.

Holloman

idy

312

88 0CT 141958

MAIL ROOM

Sullivan

NN 70953

Docld: 32313355 Page 2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI {(205-20814))8SE

DATE:

FROM KVP

SASAC, WFO (105-4083) (SU)

TO FORA ION CONIAINED

YLASSIFIED EXCEPT

cares anon

LOTNERVIS

9/17/58

SUBJECT:

ONAR FAROUK DAJANT @

IS ISRAEL

Clas

Deelassily on: DADR

Re report of SA MALCOLM P. CARR dated 8/22/58 at

Washington, D.C.,

which sets forth that on 6/10/58, an

anonymous

source advised that subject had in his possession

a rough map drawn on a scrap of paper showing directions to

Vireinla

Also noted on this (Ju

(U)

98

SL0

corrected

(U)

5648-51

CLASSIFIED

20%

4/23/97

10)

Annandale, Virginia, telephone CL 6-38097

On 9/8/58 the files of the Crédit Bureau, Incorporated'

rashington, D.C., were reviewed by SE JOSEPH C. WILLIAMS anc

revealed a report dated 9/24/56 on RICHARD TOWNSEND PATTON, 4)

Annandale, Virginia. Thist

report indicated PATTON was employed by Byron, Incorporated.

1226 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., as a sound LS

engineer and had been

so employed since October,

age was shown as twenty-sixand there were no prior employments

or additional addresses shown for PATTON. There was a notation

that his

had worked for the Civil Defense Administration Sv

1n17952

NEO file 145-33) entitled RICHARD PATTON, RICHARD ES

FFAR: ITOM" indicates that WFO was advised on 7/9/56 byLS

@ Byron Roudabush Byron, Incorporated, that he had caught PATTON,

who was employed by him, with an obscene film

PATTON was interviewed at that time by sa Ro

ERT H.CA

KURTZMAN

and Inspector ROY E. BLICK, Metropolitan-Po

Department.

He advised that he had taken the fim Irom.

desk of another employee, RICHARD OFFAR, without OFFAR's knowing

it and said he took it only to run it for his own entertainments

U

-WFO

(U)

RBK: Sas

9-30-58

REC- 72

62205-24814

Belmont

FE CIA HAS NO BJECTION TO

25 SEP 18 1958 DECLAS

SE KATYON AND/OR,

RELE

CIA INFORMATION

SEGRET I-

ECUMENT. EXCEPT tN

BRACKETS ON paS 2441

SeD/KS 8-22-48 (TAK))

(U)

HH 50953 DooId: 32313355 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(U)

(U)

(V)

WFO

(105-4083) |

￾ (U)

PATTON volunteered that he had two more rolls of similar

film in his car, also obtained from OFFAR, and produced those

rolls of film.

An examination of ald three rolls indicated

they were copies of well known editions of pornographic film.

It had been copied on film belonging to Byron, Incorporated.

OFFAR was also interviewed at that time and said he

had obtained the films from EDDIE REYNOLDS, a former employee

who was then in Tennessee.. The films were

confiscated by

Inspector BLICK and no further action taken.

V)

It is noted that Byron, Incorporated, has made several

training films for the FBI and has clearance for similar work

for the Armed Forces.

(U)

WFO indices also indicate that WF 942-S* advised on

12/21/57 that JOAN (LNU) (possibly JOAN SABBAGH, former wife of

ISA SABBAGH who has, for some time, resided with MOHAMED HABBIB,

WHO 105-19871 But ile 105-54127 hoRe led SHIRLEY (UNT) at CL 6a

3809, asking directions to her

She was told the address

2008 Bradford Drive, and they discussed whethercsomething

JOAN was to pick up would fit in her car

(U)

WFO indices reflect nothing additional which can be

identified with RICHARD T. PATTON or his wife SHIRLEY,

On 9/9/58 SA KURTZMAN ascertained from Mrs. ADRIAN

BORNEMAN, Secretary to BYRON ROUDABUSH, that PATTON is still

employed

at Byron, Incorporated, as a sound technician, is

considered loyal,

a good employee and has security clearance

for the classified work done there.

(EX PATTON was interviewed at Byron, Incorporated, on

9/10/58 by SAS RICHARD B. KELLOGG and HOWARD FLETCHER, JI

He said around 1951 he assisted in the making of a film for Dif

Incorporated, for the

Arabian American Old Company.

At that time he became acquainted with ISA SABBAGH who narrated

the fIlm. PATTON SALO SABBAGH waS theh employed by VOA and is

now an assistant to the American Ambassador to saudi Arabi

(It Is noted that SABBAGH is presentry employed with ysTa"and®

is assigned to the American Embassy in Saudi Arabia. &He has

been interviewed by CIA concerning MOHAMED HABBIB

afcasua 1 Bl

2go met DAJANY

and his wife,

SABBAGH home. He said he believed that at the time he met

DAJANY, DAJANY was still employed at the Jordanian Embassy aNDk

(0)

(0)

(U)

- 2

ins:

U)

HH 50953 DooId: 32313355 Page 4

---

## Page 5

WFO 105-4083

(U)

shortly thereafter

(V)

ERS IS ABBAGH VA

took employnent with the (International

nave attendee

social gathering (J)

(U)

Concerning other.

(U)-

(U)

(0)

there as was a Greek fellow who rans the Colony

(U)

WIth DAYAN IS PENTON MORAN a writer and lecturer Prom l

..U)

Washington,

who died several

weeks ago. He said he also

first met (MORAN through ( SADBAGH

U)

PATTON said he knows DAJANY works at the Internationalls.

Bank but knows nothing more about DAJANY's job and has never S

discussed with DAJANY politics, the Middle East or the world %.

situation.

He said he knows nothing of DAJANY's social activities

and nothing about his wife except that she works for a modell

He said he considers DAJANY a man of good character, C

knows nothing of a derogatory naturé concerning his morals,

and has seen nothing to indicate that DAJANY might be engaging'

(0))

in illegal or unethical activities

PATTON said he has

"secret" clearance by the Us s

Navy but

he does not believe DAJANY knows that, and (DAJANY has <(U)

never asked him about his job. He volunteered he would be more

than glad to cooperate with the FBI in any manner possible if

[DAJANY is engaged in operations not in the best interests of they

(U)

United States.

He added it would not be unusual if he were to

call DAJANY for a drink or invite him to his home..

10)

PATTON indicated that his wife is employed by the My u

National Plumbing Association in Washington, D.C. He also(&)u)

- 3

= 111

NH 50953 DocId: 32313355 Page 5

---

## Page 6

WTO 105-4083 J€

(U)

SE

indicated he has made several trips to the Middle East and other

countries in his work for Byron, Incorporated.

(U)

UACB, WFO contemplates conducting additional back-

ground investigation concerning PATTON.

On completion of the

inquiry, WFO will consider requesting PATTON to intensify his

association with DAJANY in an effort to learn something of his

activities.

PATTON will also be considered as a possible

intermediary

the event such a person can be utilized in

this matter

(U)

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU

(0)

(2)

In the event the Bureau is in agreement with the

contemplated steps set forth above it is requeste

that the Bureau,

through Liaison, make inquirylat

CIA to ascertain whether or not PATTON, in view

of his travels abroad and "secret" clearance by

Navy, is being utilized as a source by CIA:

It is also requested that the Bureau request the

Department of State to have ISA SABBAGH interviewed

concerning DAJANY. It is noted that PATTON

indicated that SABBAGH and DAJANY apparently had

a "falling out" after SABBAGH's wife left him.

PATTON believed the reason was that SABBAGH felt

that Mr.

and Mrs. DAJANY took JOAN SABBAGH's side

and may have

been instrumental in her decision

to leave him.

(V)

KEI

4

NN 70953

DocId: 32313355 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10328-10030

HQ

CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

[Restricted]

DATE: 08/20/1959

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS:

JOSEPH SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

10953

DooId: 32313356

Page 1

---

## Page 8

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

FD:363 (Rers 5-12-33)

S..

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ROVERSE

ERICATION

EPORTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NASHINGTON FIELD

(U

CHANGED

OWAR

FAROUK

DAJANY,

aka

Omar Hassen Sidgi Dajany

DATE

AUG 2 0 1959

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD IS

REPORT MADE BY

6/10-8/1/59 SEC

TYPED BY

MALCOLM P. CARR

AJC

CHARACTER OF CASE

Su A141

Class

Cp6/9109

Bostos

244-8-5

U)

of Kept

FRomaira

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

2457118

(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION)

of ed states

"130/57

The title of this investigation is being changed to

out in State Department communication dated /2-18-597

REFERENCE

Report of SA MALCOLM P. CARR, dated 6-19-59.

BAlet, dated 7-2-59.

NYlet, dated 7-22-59.

Wroairtels, dated 7-24-59, 7:29-59

wand

8-1-59.

Bualrtel, dated 7-31-59.

_COPIS MADE

Cue / 56

A %:

ORMATION COFTAINED

WANTASEITIEN

FoR imon (sub)le

EXCEPT PADRE SNORA

OTKERUISE

ADMINISTRATIVE DATAZCE(4G

HSCA RE Y 28:29 REQUEST,

(SEE BUDILE

462-117290);,

regard to the bank accounts

Mrs. DAJANY

following Anformation is

of subject and

set out: A05

(U)

COS MI

Classified by ZolessP

lassily on: OADAY

Declassify on: CApR 5/43/9/

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT.

IN CHARGE

DO NO LITE IN SPACE

WRITE IN SPACES BELOW SAUT

-Bureau

((105-20814)

3-New York

1(105-30008) (RM)

105/ 20914+

137 мст - 5

(1-105-19656)5

AUG 20 1953/50t

MORE REC- 34

18

Colas DESTROYED

3-Washington Field

(55K) 9123197

(105-4083) 5)

But SW

CLASSIS BY 5468-500/GCl

DECLASSIFT ON: 25X 0(6)

APPROPR

ANDALA

AGENCY State,

REQ. REC'D

-DATE FORW.

9-41-59

HOW FORWO: 14/3, 0-146,11-14,0-6-0, 074

OPERTY OF FBI

his reporcis loaned to you by the FBl, and neit

BUL

FENCIAS

оно дос

STATE

or its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned

NH 50953

DooId: 32313356

Page 2

---

## Page 9

WFO

105-4083)

(U)

Mr. THADDEUS C. COX, Vice President, Union

SECRETI

Trust

Company, Washington, D. C., (name to be concealed 1f

information disseminated)

made available to SA ROBERT E.

TORRENCE, on 7-3-59, the following information from the

account of MYs. DAJÁNY at the Union Trust Company: OuT&

(U)

Balance as of 6-26-59

$454.31

Deposits

34.64

Total

3488.95

Withdrawals

$488.95

Balance as 0f 7-3-59

• 00

Mr. COX 1s the proper person to whom a subpoena

should be directed in the event these records are to be

subprenaed. There were no checks of interest in the above

account and since data above does not materially add to the

Investigation it is not included in the body of the report. lls

On 6-26-59, MY. JOHN C. MCCORMACK (name to be

concealed 1f utilized) Vice President, Riggs National.

Bank, made available to sA TORRENCE the following information

from Riggs National Bank concerning account of subject:

Balance as of 5-20-59

$ 144.89

Deposits

2112.08

(U)

Total

$2256.97

Withdrawals

2205.55

Balance as of 6-26-59

51.42

Mr. MCCORMACK is the proper perso.: to whom to issue

a subpoena.

The account failed to reveal any checks of

Interest, the pattern being numerous checks being cashed

at International Bank for Roconstanctlon And Dovelopment

and McReynolds Liquor Store. (V

On 7-20-59, Mr. McCORMACK made

available

SA TORRENCE the following from subject's

to

account:

18/106

: (U)

Balance as of 6-26-59

$

51.42

Deposite

1267 • 95

Total

$1319.37

Withdrawals

1115.33

Balance as of 7-20-59

$

204.07

-A/

COVER PAGE

* SEXETIA)

HH 50953 DooId: 32313356 Page 3

---

## Page 10

ENRO 205-10827 7100101

Again the pattern was the numerous checks being

cashed at the

and Liquor. Cla& u

International Bank and Cheynolds Pharmacy

'(*)

It is to be noted that these records reflected a

check dated 7-14-59, was made payable to the St. Moritz

Hotel of New York City In the amount of $29.28. It should

be noted too, that in records of the subject's new account

at the Union Trust Company there is a check dated 7-13-59,

made payabo

the St. Moritz Hotel in the amount of fifty

dollars.

02 0)

In regard to the serial numbers of currency

being deposited by the subject at Riggs National Bank,

a number of serial numbers of subject's deposits have

obtained and have been made a part of the instant file.

(As of 6-30-59, however, this practice has been discontinued

Tinasnuch as New York has disclosed that payments to DAJANY

were being made by bank money orders and in some cases from

the Israell United Nations accounty In the event a comparison

of currency is desired in the future, this procedure can be

accomplished from the information already in the file. (la Su

Bureau attention 1s directed to letter from

Office of Security, Department of State, dated 6-25-59,

attaching the report of Agent E. H. WIDDIFIELD of the

State Department, dated 6-13-59.

It was indicated that a

photograph of DAJANY had been exhibited to DONALD I. SNOOK

of Tripoli (no date).

SNOOK was said to positively have

identified the subject as being the person he had furnished

information on prevlously.

In this regard, Office of

security reports of wiDDiflELd, dated 2-9-59, and 4-10-59g

set out Information concerning OMAR AHMED PAJANY and UMAR

FAROUK DAJANI which were obviously not identical with the

NO LUC

DAJANY has been continuously

residing in the U. S. since 1951. Although SNOOK identified

a photograph of subject, he did not specifically indicate

with whom subject was identical. It appears that he does

not know the

1s not being

subject and the intomation fursished by le

included in the body of the report.

(U)

and

Spot fisurs conducted by SA CARR on 7/15,29 g

30, 1959, In the vicinity of the International

• Bank

and the Roger Smith Hotel failed to disclose whereabouts

of subject.

On each instance subject's car was parked in

the lot normally

used by hin, however the subject was not

observed. (

(V)

COVER PACES * OR

HH 50953 DooId: 32313356 Page 4

---

## Page 11

ENO 105-10837 440254

- (U)

who have not been interviewed to date, it is now felt

Regarding the women contacted by the subject SECRET

since the interview with the subject,

an interview with

INGRID RICHTER and ANNA WALDRON IS no longer necessary.

The purpose of these contacts is obvious since the

Interview of subject. (YE

(V)

For information of the Bureau, on 8-1-59, subject,

without prior contact by FO, was approached at his apartment

where he was requested to come to FO for the purposes of

interview and gaining his assistance.

his pajamas, felt the interview could be done at the bi

apartment, however since Mrs. DAJANY was in the bedroom,

located just off the living room, subject was advised

that an interview did not appear to be possible under

such circumstances. Subject was reluctant to come to the

office because of numerous things he had to do preparing

for his trip on 8-5-59.

He suggested a booth in the

Washington Circle. Drug Store with which he was familiar

D.

and arrangements were made for him to meet Agents there

in ten minutes.

A portion of the interview was conducted

in complete privacy at the drugstore for approximately

thirty-five minutes and at which point it was made

obvious to the subject that he must look at photographs

of

perso v

he called, NOIRAD, (ph) and person belleved to

be

DAVID/AUT

Thereafter,

at WFO.,

ORDAN

ENNIY

Subject indicated that he would keep ils contact

with interviewing Agents in complete confidence and would

report promptly any further contacts made to him by persons

he believed to be intelligence operators.

DAJANY's accounts

of his contacts ith other than known Israeli Intelligencel

operators were obviously true however his account of

contacts with MOURAD, (IEDAN)

and ZUTA were just as talse

and fabricated.

Repeated emphasis on

the obvious untruths

on his part merely brought more

denials

It appears

subject is a pathological liar.

For the above reasons,

WFO does not recommend

further contact with the subject

for the purpose of

developing him as a double agent

or a source of intormation. (

I COVER RAOR

*SE!

HH 50953 DooId: 32313356 Page 5

---

## Page 12

NO 105-1083 / 41913

(V)

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

Location of Original Information

T. 18

WE 1046-S*J(SyU)

WE T2 16

THADDEUS C. COX,

Vice President,

Union Trust Company,

Washington, D. C.

NY T-1 is

Mrs. GLADYS RAYMOND,

Records Unit,

Chemical Corn Exchange

Bank, Two Broadway,

New York City

WF T3

(U)

CSWE

855-S

Instant report, Page 7

105-4083, Serial 274, Pages 8 and 15.

234 eo sub A rage)

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed. ()(u)

LEADS

$114

NEW YORK DIVISION

(U)

AT NEW YORK CITY

1.

(U

2.

Will, at the St. Moritz Hotel, determine

1£ DAJANY was a guest there on 7: 13) and

Lose it being noted that two checks were

given to that hotel by DAJANY in the amounts

ot $29.28 and $50.00, respectively. ly

If subject was a guest there, will determine

any telephone contacts made from subject

room during visit in an effort to ascertain.

11 he was in contact

with known Israe

intelligence agents

-D=

COVER PAGE

HH 50953 DooId: 32313356 Page 6

---

## Page 13

wro [205-4083

(U)

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Will continue to monitor bank accounts o

subject at Riggs and Union Trust Company

Will place stop notice with INS to be

advised

of subject's return to the U. S. Cle

3.

Will consider an interview with Capt.

JOSEPH SU

SHIMON, MPD, to ascertain circumstances of

his association with the subject.

Determinexs

il subject has requested SHIMON to

check

"tap" on subject's telephone.&

e

Se.138

North Utan sta, Arlington, a SToreu

20413)

(U)

circumstances

of his meeting with subject.

At State Department will, through contact

with the Israeli Desk Officer, attempt

obtain more information concerning

of the Custodlan of Enemy Property in

(U)

Israel to determine in fact if subject and

his fanily are receiving money from

rental

of property owned by subject.

The report is being classified "Secret" in view

of the information concerning the funds of the account of the

Israeli delegation to the united Nations, Account One, know

to be used for (intelligence payments, In event of down (5J (U)

grading, report

and evaluation memo

should be classified

employee of an international organization

rodett Pallavestigatio "o Boreign diplomatic official Ju

additionally classified "Confidential" since it tends to

and since data reported by WI T-1, Wr T-2, and Wr T-3,

could reasonably result in identification of informants

of continuing value and compromise future effectiveness

thereof.

U)

COVER PAGE

ESPEREI G

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 7

---

## Page 14

DECLASSIEICATION ALICEITE DEBIJED ERDIC

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 304493142

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CLASSIFIED 3X 5268 S00/6CL

Copy te:

DECLASSIFY CH

(6)(6)

(55K) 4123197

Report of:

Dates

MALCOLM P. CARR

1-17-9.

assimes

Destassify on: OADK

Offices

Washington, D. C.

• AUG 2 0 1509

File Numbers

Washington Field 105-4083

Bureau (105-208142(S)(u)

Tie LI, INFORUATTON CONTAINED

DETAIN TOUNGLASSI?

OMAR

FAROUK DAJANY

EXCRET WARN

& SHOWN

OTHORWISE

Declasaily

(565 Sp)

4293,957

Chassifield py Spla

Destessit

OADR

14-83

Character

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION

745-11

Synopsis:

Mrs • (KLARA RAFTERY,

unemployed, met subject on onel

(U)

occasion only

name and phone nunber were:

furnished subject by former Egyptian)student, and(S. (U)

meetings merely social.

Registrant of Maryland

license plates for Jaguar and Plymouth Station

wagon obtained. Information furnished by ISA Ou)

SABBAGH, USIA employee, in february, 1959,

CLASSINED

DEGLASSIFY

revealed he was social

normation receiyed subject to depart 8-5-59 for

Ita Yenroute to Jerusalem, Jordan via ship on C5

(U)

"'home leave" granted by (International Bank. C

Subject, interviewed 8-159, stated contacts with

U

• (U)

women purely social and work never discussed.

WASHENGTON, DIA Mained that capt

many of them did not know his name. Subjeet

(U)

claimed that capt. costpa sallon, of MPD was a

personal friend whom he consulted on a number of

: He told SHIMON he

State

DeLt LOS BAJANY was tapped" and was

(V)

of opinion that a "tap" may have been found

1245.118

FOI/PA #

INITITISAOB

CIVIL ACR

**:

21/8

7. 0.

DATE

Subject shown photographs

MOURAD or MURAD Jph) and person introduced to subject

Dy (NOURAD respectively. He met MOURAD)in Jerusalem

Subjectes

(u)

Government but thought him to be a student at a

university in New York City.

Contacts with MOURADE

yere for the purpose of assisting latter with a

thesis by MOURAD on economics.

Man introduced

The dacian indone aster real rade en no a he or on a in the ran a i rel, so to a lan do you de

neys

It and/or Its contents ore not to be distributed outside your agency,

SECRET

NN 70953

D001d: 32313356

Page 8

---

## Page 15

* WrO

105-4083

(U)

# SECRETA

Chim by MOURAD was believed by subject to be a

student and from Baltimore, Maryland, whom he

saw only twice.

Subject never received money

from either individual and never received money

from any Israeli at any time.

He never discussed

with them any information which could conceivably

be of intelligence value to Israelis. Subject

stated he could not tell the true story until

after he returned from his trip where he could

get permission of his family in Lebanon. He

said It wou

be a story which "will

make you

DETAILS:

AT WASHINGTON, D. C. 7Q Q(U)

Information was

previously furnished which disclosed

that Mrs.

KLARA RAFTERY, 1219 North Taft Street, Arlington,

Virginia, had been observed in the company of DAJANY on May 21,

1959. The purpose of the contact was unknown. (l

/ (U)

On June 10, 1959, Mrs. KLARA RAFTERY, Apartment Two,

1219 North Taft Street, Arlington, Virginia, was interviewed

by SAs MALCOLM P. CARR and DONALD HOETING.

She advised she

did not know an OMAR DAJANY, however, when she had an opportunity

to see a photograph of subject she

recalled that she had seen

DAJANY on one occasion only.

Mrs. RAFTERY advised that

was an Egyptian student, had furnished to the caller RAFTERY'S

name and phone number.

The caller desired to see and talk

with her.

A meeting was agreeable with Mrs. RAFTERY and

arrangements were made for the caller to pick her up at 2:00

A short while after she received another call from thi

same individual who reported that he had an appointment and

would be a bit late.

after seeing a photograph, picked her up in his personally

owned car from which point they went to the Hot shoppe at

Roslyn, Virginia,

and

on finding it closed crossed the street

to a drugstore.

U)

She advised that they were together approximately

thirty minutes during which time they spoke about current

events and the fact that she had no girl friends.

DAJANY

told her he had lots of girls to whom

he would like to

introduce RAFTERY.

She stated

it

was

a very pleasant meeting

with DAJANY but purely social.()

(U)

SE

EGYPT

Nt 70953

DocId: 32313356 Page 9

(U)

---

## Page 16

WFO

105-4083

DAJANY

cotinad urs, BArraRy to her residenca and-

she has not seen him since that time

nOT

has he called

her. RAFTERY felt that she must not have impressed DAJANY

because of his failure to contact her again. (li(s)u)

In connection with ADEL, RAFTERY referred to an

address book and stated the name was spelled ABDEL I. GARHI,

whom she understood was an Egyptian student of economics in

some school in the Washington, D. C. area.

She had met

GARHI at the Omar Khayyam Restaurant, however she has not

seen this individual for a couple of years.

RAFTERY recalled

that DAJANY told her that ADEL had returned to Egypt but

did not advise her at what time he had left the country.

On November 28, 1958, WF T-l advised that one

ADEL GARHI was known to Colonel AHNED KAMAL, Military Attache

at the Embassy of the United Arab Republic (UAR) •

informant said that Colonel KAMAL had requested Doctor

HUSSEIN SELIM the Minister it the UAR, provide a Job for

GARH! who was

an Egyptian student studying in Washington

and whose financial condition was quite bad. It appeared

that the Egyptian Government had ceased payments for

GARHI's scholarship.

Doctor SELIM was to make an attempt

to assist GARHI.(SX

(U)

Previous investigation in this matter has

revealed that on May 19, 1959, DAJANY met an unidentified

girl at 25th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.. The

girl was

tanding beside a

gray Jaguar

automobile bearing

Marylanc license plates K090-22.

U)

investigation disclosed subject met an unidentifled gir

at the Hot Shoppe, lst and Washington Streets, Alexandria,

Virginia. This girl was observed to drive a cream colored

U)

(U).

BORn 6-91-23

June 29, 1959,

SULLIVAN

at Baltimore,

Maryland,

was advised by Miss BERNICE WOODS,

Department of Motor Vehicles,

that Maryland

license JJ13-56

TAsS was registered to MARK EUGENESWALDRON and his wife, ANNA

BORDI

CHASZAR WALDRON, 6910 Brinkloy Road, S. F., Oxen H11l,

Prince Georges County Washington. D.

This license

was 8481.25

issued to a 1959 Plymouth Suburban station wagon. Al

(U)

#-3-7091"

(u)0)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 10

---

## Page 17

WFO

105-4083

PRESIDENT AND PART

Miss WOODS also reported that Maryland License

KD9022 was issued to JUSTLY FUNKHOUSER, YOL PO-<AVen®

Hagers own ma

Maryland, for a 1959 Jaguar roadster. M

No operators license could be located for

FUNKHOUSER, however ANNA CHASZER was issued operators

license A680994, in which she is described as white,

female, five feet seven inches, one hundred and forty

pounds, born August 27, 1925.

Her husband, MARK EUGENE

WALDRON, issued operators license A553683, was described

hundred and

(0)

In connection with JUSTI

FUNKHOUSER, on July 10,

1959, IC ARTHUR EDWARD WARNER caused a search to be made of

the records of the Credit Bureau,

Incorporated, Washington,

D. C.

These records contain a credit report dated February 13,

1959, at Hagerstown, Maryland.

His address was listed as

Longmeadow, Apartment 7C, Hagerstown, Maryland. His

employment was listed as

president and part owner of the

Victor Products Company, Hagerstown, Maryland. It was

indicated that he was separated from his wife, RUTH C.

TUNKHOUSER.

pertinent to this restis cont. cladditional information

(2 (0)

On July 15, 1959, IC WARNER was made available

a credit report dated November 13, 1956, concerning

MARK WALDRON, whose wife was listed as ANNA WALDRON,

6910 Brinkley Road, S. E.

His employment was listed

with the Mount Vernon

Publishing Company, where he had

been employed as a printer for fourteen years.

His wife's

employment was listed as secretary at Riggs National Bank,

15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., as a secretary for the

past thirteen years. These records contained no additional

pertinent information concerning ANNA Or MARK WALDRON.

on July 16, 1959, SE JOSEPH C. CREEDEN caused a

check to be made of the records of the Metropolitan Police

Department (MPD) • These records contained no records of

JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER OF MARK OF ANNA WALDRON; at all times

an indefinite number of unidentified r

cords are out of

file and not available for review.

U

* SECRETI

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 11

---

## Page 18

(U)

WFO

105-4083

(U)

Previous investigation in this matter has revealed

that in June,

1958, information was furnishec

indicating that the subject was acquainted with In SABBAGH

an employee

the United States Information Agency

abroad.

LEBANON

ARABIA

On February

27, 1959, the

office of Security,

Department of State, made available a report dated

February 18, 1959, which disclosed that ISA SABBAGH was

Interviewed at Jidda, Saudi Arabia, concerning DAJANY,

(U)

SABBAGE stated he is not acquainted with

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY bat is acquainted with OMAR HASSEN

SIDGI DAJANY, approximately thirty-four years of age,

who is employed by the World Bank, Washington, D. C.

SABBAGH stated DAJANY Is married to an American girl

named BETTY who is employed by the United States Government

in Washington, D. C.

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY is fair

complexioned,

light brown eyes, brown hair, and is

Jordaniàn.

He attended American University In Beirut,

Lebanon, and has a Ph.D from a Washington, D. C. university

in 1957. SABBAGH stated he has been well acquainted with

DAJANY since 1954•

SABBAGH said DAJANY 1s socially charming,

has a ready wit, and fancies himself as a social butterfly.

In 1957, DAJANY's wife asked for a divorce, but this did not

matetialize The two, according to SABBAGH,

have been reconciled.

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY would often gloat about

his friendship with the late King ABDULLAH of Jordan and the

present King, HUSSEIN. He said DAJANY had been second in

command at the Jordanian Embassy In Washington, D. C. up to

1953, when he resigned to join the World Bank.

At the time

of DAJANY's resignation, there was cause for some gossip with

some saying he was discharged but DAJANY deniod this saying

that it was proposed to recall him to Jordan.

SABBAGH said

that DAJANY reported that he refused because he was planning

on furthering his education in Washington and therefore resigned.

SABBAGH said that DAJANY

expresses fondness for the United

States because of DAJANY's social acceptability, his American

friends, and comforts of the United States.

SABBAGH said

DAJANY had been critical of policies of the United States

in the Near East,

especially in connection with the

Palestine question, but e was no less critical of the Arab

policies at the time of the Palestine issue.

SABBAGH

considered DAJANY the reserve Arab nationalist whose American

training appeared to make him less vitriolic than many of

his nation.

He is reported to admire NASSER (President of

the

VAR) o

(U)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 12

---

## Page 19

WFO

105-4083

(U)

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY has not a few "Jewish"

friends in the United States and is not "anti-Jewish" as such.

DAJANY's father, HASSAN SIDGI DAJANY, was a prominent

Palestinian who was assassinated shortly after the war, accused

of being a British "stooge".

DAJANY, according to SABBAGH,

told him that the American Department of State at the time

suspected him of pro-Soviet leanings and that DAJANY denied

the charge that he had been observed at some date visiting

the Soviet Legation in Beirut. DAJANY is also conscious of

having been seen with his wife attending social functions

at the Soviet Embassy, however, DAJANY claims his name would

still be on the register of the Soviet Embassy from the days

when he was an officer of the Jordanian Embassy.

SABBAGH said

that

although he could not say that DAJANY was actually loyal

to the United States "from a legalistic view point, (indeed his

not being a citizen of the United States saved him from such

expected loyalty) he would say that he would not harm the

United States' interests for the sake of the Soviets.

Insofar

as he is a staunch Arab first, he might harm the United States:

interests in a negative way, that is, by not leaning over

backwards to advance such interests if he thought they conflicted

with the Arab interests."

(SA8) 640)

DAJANY was said to be "well connected" in Washington

and New dork, with one of his friends of long standing, Doctor

RALPH BUNCHE of the United Nations.

On June 25, 1959, the Office of Security, Department

of state, reported that SABBAGH had been shown a photograph

of the subject of this investigation and that SABBAGH identified

OMAR HASSEN SIDGI DAJANY

as being identical with the subject of

this investigation.

(U)

On May 20, 1959, NY T-1 made available a personal

money order issued by the branch of the Chemical Corn

Exchange Bank at which an account entitled "Delegation of

Israel to the United States, Account Number One" is maintained.

One money order was as follows:

07S)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 13

---

## Page 20

WFO

105-4083

Issue Date

Payee

Money Order No.

Amount

Maker

Address

Endorsement

5-6-59

* SECRET

International Bank for

Reconstruction

and: Development.

A139298

$200.00

OMAR DAJANY

2514 K St., N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

OMAR DATANY, stamped for deposit

to the credit of the International

Bank for Reconstruction and Development

Account B.

American Security and Trust Company,

Washington, D. C., 5-11-59.

On June 15, 1959, NY T-I made available the following

money order:

Bank cleared or

deposited

Issue Date

Payee

5 - 20-59

International Bank for Reconstruction

and Development.

Money Order No.

Amount

Maker

Address

A139500

$200.00

OMAR DATANY

2514 K St., N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

Endorsement

OMAR DAJANY, stamped for deposit

to the credit of the International

Bank for Reconstruction and Development

Account B.

Bank cleared or

American Security and Trust Company,

deposited

Washington, D. C., 5-2859.

On July 17, 1959, WT T-2 made available information

from a local Washington, D. C. bank disclosing that Mrs. DAJANY

had closed her account at the bank and that a new account in the

name of OMAR DAJANY, 2514 K Street, had been opened on June 30,

1959, In the amount of $805.50.

During the period of June 30,

to July 17, 1959, DAJANY made withdrawals of $793.38,

the total

as of July 17, 1959, being $12.12. It 1s to be noted from this

above account

that on July 13, 1959, DAJANY made a check payable

to the St. Moritz Hotel, New York City, in the amount of $50.00.

It is also to be noted that the new account was started

with a

deposit made from the "proceedings

a loan", the details of

which have not been determined

These above records

cannot be made public without the

issuance of a subpoena duces

connection with data

reported by NY I-1 and WF T-2,

* (U)

* SEC

1N 30953 DoC1d:32313356 Page 14

---

## Page 21

WEO [105-4083

* SECRETE

1959, MrS. KAY WHALEN, TOrmelLy the manager

of the apartment dwelling in which the subject presently resides,

advised that Mrs. DAJANY had reported to her on that date that

they were departing the United states tor faris, trance. or

August 5, 1959, via the "SS Liberte" for three months' leave. (

On July 29, 1959, WF T-3 advised that DAJANY will depart

from the United States at New York City on the "SS Liberte" on

August 5, 1959, for Italy enroute to Jerusalem (Jordan) on a

trip, which will be in connection with "home leave" granted by

the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

Cherbourg:

(U)

Further information concerning the itinerary of the

subject is not known to WI I-3.(8

(U)

50953

DooId: 32313356 Page

15

---

## Page 22

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SAC, BO (205-2033) 072101)

DATE: 8-10-59

FROM :

SA MALCOLM P. CARR

"sUIJaCT:

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY, aka

Omar Hassen Sidgi Dajany

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

(U)

U)

On (August 1, 1959,| DAJANYwas interviewed byl

- CARR and HAROLD RUBENSTEIN prior to which DAJANY CA (U)

was advised that statements made by him were voluntary on his

part and that he was not being compelled to make any statements.

He was advised that he had the right of counsel and that any mo

statements made by him could be used against him in court.

In regard to his contacts with United States Gove

nment

employees, DAJANY furnished the following information:

(U)

MRS.

ROSLYN BE SALUST ES,

EMPLOYED BY THE GUNSHAL

SERVICES ADMINISTRATION. (GSA)

DAJANY said he has known ROSLYN SALUS for two or three

like to know her better.

He said he has found her remote and cool

to him and that at no time has he discussed with her her employment.

In fact, DAYAN aid not know her employment except than snowledgel

employed In the building at 18th and F Streets, N

of Mrs. SALU has been gained from seetng her at uchernold sittings

and talking with her over a sandwich and a"coke.

MISS BARBARA BEA ALEXANDER & (V)

EMPLOYED BY TELE UNITED: STATES

"NAVY, DEPARTMENT

first met her _at(2514 KIstreet,

where both resided for a

while. Hd characterizedher as a

"nice kid" and one from whom he

gets great pleasure in being with. He said he sees her for lunch, and

has taken her to the horse races with him inasmuch

as she shares

his joys and his sorrows. He has never discussed'hor work with

her at any time and aside from her

working at the Navy Department,

be has no idea what she

does.

VICKIE SIMSALE

IMPLOYED BY!

HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

(U)

DAJANY has met her on two occasions only and

does not Cs

know where she is

employed.

He said he is not particularly interested

In her as a woman and has never talked to her about her work.

has her phone number.

has not

seen or talked to her for

long

perlod of time.

-9-7M

*.

(V)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 16

---

## Page 23

WFO

[105-4083

) (U)

SECRET =

ISA SABBAGH,

EMPLOYED BY THE UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGANCY (USIA)

DAJANY last saw SABBAGH in Beirut, Lebanon In February,

1959, at which time the subject was visiting

there in connection

with

trip made on business for the International Bank.

According to DAJANY, SABBAGH told him that he was an Assistant

to the American Ambassador to saudi Arabla, however DAdAl

questioned the title sincé DAJANY has never heard of such

position.

He considers SABBAGH and his wife, JoANg as purely

social acquaintances although at one time in 1954 he teamed

up with SABBAGH in making a broadcast to the Middle East for

the benefit of the International Bank and the Voice of America

(VOA) • DAJANY admires SABBAGH for his knowledge of the Arabic

language but has found him tiring and uninteresting since

SABBAGH is always nagging, is dissatisfied with his promotiors,

and is dissatisfied with the world in general.

He said he doss

not correspond with SABBAGH au

Longer and is

not acquainted

with SABBAGH's assignment.

DONALD L. SNOOK

EMPLOYED BY USTA ABROAD

DAJANY believes that he has met SNOOK once only.

He said he seems to recall that ISA SABBAGH, on going abroad,

left his car with DAJANY and told DAJANY that in the event

SNOOK asked to use the car the request should be granted.

DAJANY believes that SNOOK had called him and had taken the

car.

He can recall

no further conversation with SNook other

than the above. OfCi

(V)

Regarding other persons with whom DAJANY has been

known to be in contact

previoysly, the subject furnished

the following information

NT • GEORG

BARNES

DAJANY stated that he and BARNES have been close

personal friend.

since

250, having first met him in

Jerusalem, Jordan, wuere BARNES was

associated with the International

Truce Organization.

He said BARNES later went with the

Unite Nations Security Council and then to the International

Co-operation Administration, and is

now associated with Konmore

Associates, a public relations firm

having offices In Washington

and New York.

DAJANY said that

friendship with BARNES

continues on a social basis.

(U)

x-10-7

- 0i/4

E SECRET *

(U)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 17

---

## Page 24

WEO (105-4083

ANNA WALDRON

PlU)

SECKET I

DAJANY did not know WALDRON by name but recalled

that he had met someone with a station wagon and advised that

this, like alt of his oth

contacts with women, have been for

purely social reasons. O

(U)

RUTH C. FUNKHOUSER

Maryland License KD90-22.

DAJANY advised that he did not know RUTH FUNKHOUSER

but is acquainted with INGRID RICHTER who, until recently,

resided at the Washington Circle Apartments, 2430 Pennsylvania

Avenue, N. W., and who drives a gray Jaguar. He explained

that this automobile was given to RICHTER by JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER

whom he does not know personally.

He advised that Mrs. DAJANY

had met Miss RICHTER and had told her about the possibility of

employment at the Gaslight Club as a waitress. RICHTER took

the job there but gave it up shortly thereafter because she

was not allowed to date patrons of the club. Her employment

is not known at present by DAJANY.

He explained his association

with her is purely social and for

love

of beautiful women. (

CATHERINE WRIGHT,

3516 Clay Place,

N. E.

CLARE HAWKINS,

1700 U Street, N. W.

HELEN SMITH

814 Division Avenue; N. E

DAJANY claimed that he did not know the above girls

by their surname but recalls he knew

of some "Negro girls"

with given names as above. gie stated that he met these gifte

and others through DIDIER RAGUENET, formerly Third Secretary

stated "was fond of Negro

women" 3E DAJANY said

he knew them socially but saw them

infrequently and the purpose being to satisfy his sexual desires.

In regard to girls in general, DAJANY said some of the

girls he meets he knows by their given name or their

surname;

on occasions, however, many of them are not known to him at

all

by name. He summed up his association with

women by saying that

women were his only weakness, that he loved

beautiful women and

abhorred ugly ones. He said he has always

after" women and

will always do it until the day he dies.

U)

1021-781 CiT ET 7044

(U)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 18

---

## Page 25

(U)

WFO

105-4083

CHARLES M

OWNER OF DESERT

INN RESTAURANT

NO Loc,

DAJANY had known SAAH a number of years and considers

him a personal friend. DAJANY said SAAH no longer runs the

Desert Inn but operates the Iron Gate Inn; is believed to also

have some interest in another women's apparel shop. DAJANY

advised he has borrowed money from SAAH on numerous occasions

but to date he is no longer indebted to him.

He said that

SAAH has never requested that he furnish any information,

neitherhas he spoken with or furnished to SAAH information

which could be construed to have any intelligence value.

AZIZ ALLOUNI

FIRST SECRETARY

INTTED ARAB REPUBLIC (UAR)

DAJANY reported no social contact with ALLOUNI aside

from seeing him at diplomatic functions in Washington. DAJANY

said ALLOUNI is not interested in other women. They have no

common interest,

and for that reason he does no consider him

a close friend

(U)

Doctor ABDSL BADUE ASUA

/ALAM

(U)

SOCIAL

AND

LASOR AITACH!..

(LAR).

DAJANY described him as an Egyptian whom he knows

quite well, both having attended American University in

Washington

together.

DAJANY has helped ALAM in the use of

the English language in a thesis which ALAM had been preparing.

He stated that his association with ALAM until the latter's

marriage, had been close but now they have drifted apart.

DAJANY recalled that on one occasion ALAM gaVe DAJANY money

to give to someone in the Middle East and because of an

emergency, DAJANY had spent part of the money.

ALAM insisted

• than DAJANY had contemplated

and DAJANY and ALAM went together to one of the banks and

obtained a loan in order for DAJANY to repay ALAM.

He said

at no time has he ever received Information from ALAM which

could be construed to be of any intelligence value.

MAHNOUD HOUSAN,

FORTERLY MINISTER AT THE JORDANIAN EMBASSY

Fata

DAJANY said that when ROUSAN came to the Jordanian

Embassy, DAJANY was ROUSAN's superior, ROUSAN being the

Military Attache and DAJANY the First

Secretary.

Later

ROUSAN was recalled to Jordan and was involved in some

difficulty, however he

returned to the United States with

the rank of Minister.

(U)

-12-

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 19

---

## Page 26

I wro 105-4083

(DAJANY feels that ROUSAN has great ambitions, but l»

will never succeed because he is the type who writes poetry

na who dreams. (DAJANY recalled that just prior to ROUSAN's

eparture Irom the United States in /July, 1958, he Visited

HOUSAN said he accepted this position because he hoped that itS

Three days after

MAJAL further advised that In jail RoUSAN had written a L

ninety to one hundred and ten pagerletter to King HUSSEIN

begging the King for forgiveness for wrong doings and acmitteg

working for the Egyptians. After being advisedof the abovels.

information, DAJANY wondered whether he should remain in touch

with ROUSAN's brother who remained in Washington as a student (

and whom DAJANY had been requested by ROUSAN to lock after ano

to help him get a job. (DAJANY said he went to the Saudi Arabian

(ROUSAN's brother.

yever, he claims he was advised that he

should not do this.

According

with which one

many of the things which ROUSAN thought but many times would&

find himself Indicating agreement just

to get away from ROUSAND

DAJANY said he seriously doubted that ROUSAN was actuallyu

guilty of the allegations made

heavy indebtedness of ROUSAND E

According

i to bAANY

ROUSAN

and others

In Jordan

a trial is soon to be held for*

(u)

Captain JOSEPHASHIMON..

MET ROFOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT

DAdANy said that he was very fond of shinor

that they

are dear friends, having net him approximately ItVe

years ago through a mutua

(U)

JEANNIE, visit the DAJANY'S

nd vice

and his wafe,

versa.

DAJANE

that he

had become very fond

(U)

interested in the Middle East

afforded

her much information in this

regard.

sald that recenty

he had an altercation with an

attendant at a gas station

and had sought SHIMON's aid.

explained that on going

x -13- *

(V)

(U)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 20

---

## Page 27

WO 05-1083] RB 0)

into a gas station and ordering gas, the attendant kept

*SECREI

cigarette in his mouth while filling the tank. DAJANYS U

(U)

causing great pain and anguish. DAJANY Sought SHIMON's advice

(U)

(V)

and was

said that he has consulted SHIMON in other personal matters

and recently consulted

SHIMON

regarding the selling of DaJANY'sIs

(U)

personally owned car.

DAJANY recalled that in 1954, he casually mentione

to SHIMON that he felt his phone was "tanped".

DAJANY Sai

(U)

he did not know whether SHIMON had checked for a "tap" but

shortly thereafter his relatiorship with SHIMON seemed not

as friendly.

From this DAJANY

"Surmised SHIMON had

in fact

- (U)

found a "tap"

and

probably was dubious about associating

with DAJANY

U)

BARUCH LILO

5J0)

ASSOCIATED WITH EL AL

TOFFICIAL ISRAELI

AIRLINES),

NEW YORK

LILY SCHULTZ,

KENMORE ASSOCIATES

In regard to the

above two names,

DAJANy did not (SJu

know either

person and has had no dealings

With people

So

named. S

(U)

RAFAEL MEDAN - DAVID ZUTA

DAJANY did not know either of the aboye inaividuals.

When furnished a description of DAVID ZUTAJ and MEDAN, he fo

(U)

advised that he knew an individual who appeared to be the same

sZUTA, who had been introduced to him by oneLBENNY HOURAl ALT

Then shown a photograph off

MEDAN and ZUTA, DAJANY stated that MOURAD was identical wIthC

the photograph of MEDAN and that the person introduced to

by (MEDAN was identical with the photograph of zUTA.

He stated that he first met BENNY MOURAD at Cafe Lau (U)

urope in Jerusalem in approximatey

I946 or 194%.

hree years ago, MORAD contacted DAJANY and said he was CA

passing throug

town and wanted to see bAJANY.

MOURAD told

(U)

DAJANY he was a student at a University in Nei

York City, CS

either Princeton,

to DAJANY O

(Slumbia. ox Nor York deirassity,

according

*-14-

* SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 21

---

## Page 28

wFo 105-4083

(U)

MOURAD was pursuing a course in economics and was

preparing a thesis in connection with the course and therefore

was consulting DAJANY for assistance.

According to DAJANY,

MOURAD came to Washington from New York about once a month

at which time they would get together for luncheon or a drink

and discuss current topics and the thesis which MOURAD was

preparing.

Oftentimes DAJANY furnished information which

required MOURAD to take notes and DAJANY made notes of what

was being discussed.

Never at any time did MOURAD give

DAJANY any money and at no time would he discuss with or

furnish MOURAD any information which could conceivably be

of any intelligence value to the Israelis. DAJANY denied

that he knew MOURAD was associated or employed by the Israell

Government in the United States and felt contident that

MOURAD was not an intelligence agent. DAJANY could recall

that at least on two occasions he had received a magazine

from MOURAD and on one of these occasions the magazine

contained a manila envelope in which

there was the thesis

on which MOURAD was working.

× (U)

It is noted that on July 10, 1958, DAJANY had

beep observed to enter the Roger Smith Hotel, pick up a

magazine dropped by RAFAEL MEDAN and later, on a streetcar,

take from the magazine a white envelope which he opened

and peered into and later deposited three hundred and fifty

dollars in a bank in Washington. DAJANY vigorously and

categorically denied any such occurrence. He said that it

may have been one of the times that he received a thesis

which had been enclosed in the magazine but never any money.

DAJANY recalled that near the end of 1958, he had:

been introduced by MOURAD to an individual he identified

as

ZUTA from the photograph.

This man was met on two occasions

only with the last occasion being several months ago. The

man was introduced by name, however DAJANY did not recall it.

noduced by aa.

He reported to DAJANY that he was a student at Baltimore,

Maryland and indicated a fair knowledge of the Middle East.

and of Jerusalem.

The man asked about the welfare of certain

families in Jerusalem known to DAJANY.

He appeared to know

the location of the tomb of DAJANY's father and they also

discussed a little Arab girl who had been operated on by a

Doctor DIAMOND in Boston whose

treatment was made possible

by DAJANY's intercession.

(U)

4-15-79

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 22

---

## Page 29

WFO

105-4083

" (U)

DATANY

has not seen MOURAD since the time he was

introduced to the man known as DAVID ZUTA and DAJANY did

not know whether MOURAD was presently in New York or the

United States.

DAJANY has not been contactedby ZUTA

any fashion since the last time described above. fell

(U)

In connection with sizeable sums of money received

by DAJANY, as determined by previous investigation, DAJANY

said no such funds were coming into his possession

and

welcomed the examination of his accounts and personal belongings.

After repeated questions concerning financial arrangements between

DAJANY and MEDAN Or ZUTA, DAJANY recalled that he had received

various amounts of money for a period of over three years. He

explained that approximately five years ago while in Europe, he

met a Mr. FALKHIRSCH, whom DAJANY described as a real estate

man from Israel. DAJANY, who, with his family, has considerable

real estate and bank accounts in Israeli held Jerusalem, was

advised by FALKHIRSCH to make application to the Custodian of

Enemy Property in Israel, in order to draw the proceeds from

rents of the property and part of the savings in banks in

Israel. DAJANY said he waited a while, possibly until about

three years ago, when he made application to the Custodian

(the name of the Custodian and the place to which he directed

the application was unknown to DAJANY. He said that about

three years ago money started coming in. First there wa a one

hundred dollar limitation per month that persons outside of

Israel could ruceive.

to four hundred Arabs in the United States rechiving

from the Custodian of Enemy Property in Israel..

According to DAJANY it is: his understanding that

the money being received from the Custodian of Enemy Property

has ceased or will cease in the near future because of some

fiscal arrangement Whether it will begin again, Dadaly

does not know. (

DAJANY was asked if he had in his possession an

accounting of the money received over a given period of

time, however, he said that he had not kept such an account

because the money was sent directly to his family in Beirut,

Lebanon, and they in turn would send part of the money to

which he was entitl d

He said that many times his

brothers or hisrelatives would make a trip from Jordan to

the United States and would bring to him parcels of goods

and foods and at the same time bring bank drafts or checks

and currency to him from the Custodian of Enemy Property.

-16 m

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 23

---

## Page 30

INTO 5205-1083 7 4/446010

5(0)

DAJANY denied that ZUTA or MOURAD (MEDAN) had ever

handed to him any monies which came from the Custodian and

again denied that he had ever received from New York or from

any other city money as a result of his contacts with any

the Israelis:

In fact, DAJANY said that on at least one

of

occasion MOURAD had borrowed one hundred and fifty dollars

from him as a loan which he later repaid. &

(U)

In connection with DAVID ZUTA, 1t

appeared that

ZUTA merely wanted to continue the friendship established

by MOURAD. DAJANY stated that he enjoyed ZUTA because of

excellent Arabic he spoke but aside from this he did not

the

feel that ZUTA was overly intelligent.

He said by no means

would he ever suspect that ZUTA was an intelligence operator

and at no time did

he ever discuss with ZUTA anything which

could be termea intelligence

OT

which would be of any value

to the Israeli Government.

DAJANY advised that he had no way to contact

either MOURAD (MEDAN) or the person to whom

he was introduced

by MOURAD (ZUTA) and that contacts by them with him had been

initiated by these two men.

DAJANY said that his work at the International Bank

did not allow him access to the type of information the

Israeli Government might be desirous of. He worked exclusively

in the Far East such as Burma, Viet Nam, and the Philippines,

and there was nothing in connection with such an assignment

Israeli Government.

at the laterestional Bank which could be of intoxest to the

He said he was never asked by MOURAD or the person

introduced by MOURAD or by any persons he knew to be Israelis

to furnish them with any information from his work at the

International Bank and at no time has he ever received any

pay for any discussion he might have had with any Israelis

(D)

In concluding the interview, DAJANY stated be

felt fortunate that he

was contacted prior to his departure

on "home leave" from the bank for now he could talk to his

mother and brothers in Lebanon and get their permission to

tell the tru. story of his activities, a story which he said

"will make you laugh'.

(U)

-17*

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 24

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DÉPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer o

File No.

(105-4083 3) (0)

SECRET

Washington, D. C

OMAR FAROUK DATANY

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

(U)

Confidential informants HF T-1, WE T-2, WF I-3, and

NY T-1, utilized in report of Special Agent Malcolm?. Carre

dated and captioned

above, have furnished reliable information

In the past. (RATS (n)

This memorandum is loaned to you by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation and neither it nor its contents

are to be

distributed outside the

agency to which loaned.

'2.

. 049.

220

391

1103

28.120

93ssdá

16201

700%

4047

Solidon

CAGD0

" 0.

4910

C20F

206/9011048

i 205/002a0dw

non

703. 06

Clas

625232

20. 4

& SECREI?

NH 50953

DocId: 32313356 Page 25

---

