# 124-90062-10012

## Page 1

124-90062-10012

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90062-10012

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-85082-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

10: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/26/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MARVIN KANTOR

SOVIET CONTACTS WITH AMERICANS IN DENMARK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

| HH. 50953

DocId: 32327314

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IN/ CONTTNUED CONTROL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

26 OCT 1960

TOs

Direator

Foderal. Buresu of Investigation

Attentions Mr. S. J. Papioh

FROM &

Deputy Direotor, Plane

SUBJECT: Soviet Contacts with Amerioans in Dermark

1. Reference is made to your letter entitled Dauld Allen BOOTH, dated

4 October 1960, your file rumher 100-432027, and to various nemoranda fron

this office concerning Sovlet contacts with American studenta in Denmark.

Speoifle references among our reports to you are CSCI-3/758,793, detod

20 Septenber 1960, and GSCT-3/761,974, datod 20 septenber 1960.

The following

additional information concerning the subject matter has been provided by an

official of a Danish security servica.

2. BOOTH's contadt with members of the soviet Imbassy in Copenhagen

Iirst cone to official attention when, on 11 lotober 1959, he was contaotod

by Vladisley Michellovich ABARCHALIN; a Clerk at the Sovlet Embassy in Copen-

hagen, and made arrangements to meet ABARCHALIN and the latter'a "two vivos"

at a theater that evening.

ABAROHALIN Initiated thie contact in a manner

frequently used by kGb officers in Copenhagon. They net at the theater as

planned, the party also inoluding ABARCHALIN's wife and lurly Alekseyeviah

IVANOV, born 30 March 192h in Brianak, USSR, tha was an Attache und susposted

Kob ofilcer at the local soviet imbassy. booth, who had obtaned blokets sor

the entire group, arrived escorting an undontlied wonan.

Another of ABARCHALIN 'a contacts in Copanhagen has bean Rembert

Caven ALEx, who 1a the cubjeot of osci-3/161,97hs

On 29 Dotober 1958

ASARCHAM pet Alibrat tbottom haill aquare in Copenhagen and the two

want together to a restaurant and later to the thoater.

this noeuing in the cano manner at to used in concawing BOUTH, aa mentloned

above. AthlY bag United States Passport No. 1570658, Laaued 21 May 1959

in Chlongo, ana ho has given tia adaross an 304 W. Willow Street, chicago lu,

alinois. Hosha stated that he became interested in Dormark as a result of

having worked in the United Staten with a Daniah architeat. Ho-recelved a

Bachelor of Archlicoturo degree fron the Univeretty of fallinoia in February

ERI INFORMATION GONTAINED

HEREIN

11.44 67. 2p mAC/KSR

NOFORN/CONTIVUED: CONTROL

JFK)

1105-85082

NOT

RECORDED

46 NOV 9 1960

SECRETI

ORIGINAL COPY FILED

1013-432027

NN 70953

DocId: 32327314 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

NOFORN/ CONTINUED

CONTROL

1956, after which he entered military service. He vas released after six

monthe as a Second Ileutenant in the United States Army Signal Corps. In

his work in Dermark, for a firn doing military construction in Greenland,

ALLEY does not have access to olassified documents, but he does have aocess

to unclassified blueprints and other papers and he is in contact with a

number of people worlding on the Greenland projects.

L. It appears that ALLEY was the individual through whom ABARCHALTN

came into contact with Marvin KANTOR, Inasmuch as ALLEY indicated to ABAR-

CHALIN on 5 November 1959 that he would introduce him to KANTOR that evening.

It is belleved that on that evening ALLEY and ABARCHALIN walked together to

KANTOR 's address but failed to see him. According to official travel records,

KANTOR had left Dermark for the USSR on 25 May 1959. He roturned on 10 Septen-

ber 1959, presumably having spent the intervening period in the soviet union.

5. On the evening of 16 November 1959, however, ABARCHALIN was observed

entering a local restaurant with ALLEY and KANTOR, Ine three sat down at a

table with two unidentifled foreigners of oriental appearance. All members of

the group apparently knew each other, sinoe they innediately entered into

rather animated conversation. They also looked at some papers or magasines,

one of which bore the title, Soviet filln. later in the evening KANTOR loft

the restaurant alone, carrying a newspaper or magazine, and ALLEY and ABAR-

CHALIN left together soon thereafter, ALlEY separating fron ABARCHALIN arter

a shori time and returning to his residence alone.

The two oriental-looking

foreigners remained in the restaurant and later joined two other men who also

appeared to be foreigners. One of the latter two left the restaurant at about

0050 hours and drove off in a car registered to William VALENCIA, an education

student born on 9 Maroh 1936 in Chloago.

The other unidentified foreigner was

a Negro who left the restaurant at 0015 hours.

6.

We will forward to you any additional information that may be received

concerning the matters reported above.

CSCI-3/762,234

2

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32327314 Page 3

---

