# 124-10222-10148

## Page 1

124-10222-10148

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10148

• RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-3RD NR 109

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE : :

DATE: 07/08/1964

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MRR, INMATES, ISLE OF PINE PRISON, CONDEMNED, HARD

LABOR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId:32298372

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REPORI

INE OT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGES

O TON

REP

ORI

Thie materlal contains toformation allecting the Natlone! Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title

U.8.0. Secs. 703 and 194, the tranamission or rerelation of which in any manner to an unnutborized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS. -311/00269-64

SUBJECT

Prisoners on the Isle of Pines

Condemned

DATE DISTR.

to Hard Labor Apparently

in Retaliation for Attack on Cabo

Cruz Sugar Mill in May 1964

NO. PAGES

8 July 1964

REFERENCES

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

June 1964

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Spain, Madrid

(12 June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

BRACKETS

SOURCE:

An official Spanish service.

S

JM 1-26-98

ткн 2-6-98.

About 1,500

inmates of the "Circulares" No. 1 and 2 of the

Isle of Pines prison,

the majority of whom belong to the

SLD/KSR

Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR. Movement

3-3-98

for Revolutionary Recovery, which is headed by Manuel

Artime Buesa,

> have been

ing highways and fortifications

condemned to hard labor,

construct-

(JFK)

on the Isle of Pines.

action apparently is in retaliation for the MRR attack on

the Cabo Cruz sugar mill in the Port of Pilon,

The prisoners have also been denied any form of

communication with their

Spanish Service Comment.

The informant described the con-

demned inmates

as a select group of Cuba's youth whose be-

havior in prison has been heroic.

_coples made

for review at FBIHQ by,

MSCA 3. 14.78

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/3/94 BY SPSMAC

(aFK)

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

INFORM

TON

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NAVY

USIA

NSA

I&NS

E PO

13

2

NX

OCR

downgrading

declarifection

I FBI

O RI

MATION REPORT

XEROXED ORIGINAL RETAIN

NH 50953

Doold: 32296372

Page 2

---

