# 124-10289-10058

## Page 1

124-10289-10058

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10289-10058

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-99401-21, 22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/16/1965

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS:

CC, CORTEZ, RAYMOND, TRANSCONTINENTAL S.A.,

LIAISON WITH FOREIGN AUTHORITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/21/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC 3 MEMO, NOTE

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32305928

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSITICATION AUTHCRITY DERIVED ERCU:

EBI AUTONATIC DEELASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 00-18-2023

BY: ES4M93k42

4-3 (Rey: 12-14-64)

INFORMATION

CONKAINED

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

14X944

RADIO

O TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Contad

Felt

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

• - adora

water

SD 05

DECLASSIACATIOM AND/OR,

URGENT 3-16-65

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATICN O

TO DIRECTOR

IN THIS DOCUMEN. AS SAnDRO

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 1(4

EM 4-8-94

RAYMOND CORTEZ;

ACT.

TRANSCONTINENTAL S. AO, ET AL; EXPORT CONTROL

REBUCAB MARCH 15 LAST.

DEat

MATTER MENTIONED RECAB DISCUSSED WITH EMBASSY ECONOMIC

VOFFICER HARRY R. ZERBEL THIS DATE. HE ADVISED THAT

APPROXIMATELY THREE WEEKS AGO HE WAS INFORMED THAT REPRESENTATIVE

OF US ATTORNEY FOR EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS WOULD COME TO

MEXICO AND CONTACT HIM FOR PURPOSE OF DISCUSSING INSTANT CASE

AND

OBTAINING PERTINENT DOCUMENTS. TO DATE THIS REPRESENTATIVE

HAS NOT COME TO MEXICO.

ZERBEL FEELS IT WOULD BE PREMATURE AT THIS TIME FOR THIS

OFFICE TO: CONTACI.. ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MEXICO AND REQUESTED

WE TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL HERECEIVES ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS

ROM US DEPARTMENT OF

COMMERCE. AND FROM:US ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR

PASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS. ZERBEL MENTTONED CONFIDENTIALLY THAT

APPARENTLY SOMEONE IN WASHINGTON SOME AGO APPROACHED CIA ABOUT

VOBTAINING TRANSCONTINENTAL DOCUMENTS AND CIA HERE HAS CLANDESTINE

-(U)

MEANS OF OBTRAINING

SUCH DOCUMENTS IF

ATTORNEY GEÑERAL OF MEXICO ANTONI

"PERSONALLY KNOWN

TO LEGAT AND IT. IS FELT HE WOULD BE COMRLETELY COOPERATIVE IN

ATTEMPTING OT OBTAIN DOCUMENTS PROVIDINE FRAMEWORK OpMEXICAN

LAW WOULD PERMIT HIM TO DO SO.

EW OF ZERBEL

BSFREQUEST

AND UACB NO FURTHER ACTION BEING TAKEN HEREMAR

THIS TIME PENDING

ADDITIONAL BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS

lei.

te.

12ACE

CLARK D. ANDERSON

RECEIVED

8: 33. PM. ULD

BRD CC: MR. BRENSTAN

5-8

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NN 50953 DooId: 32305928

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: F51493442

1

- Mr. Belmont

Mr. Sullivan

• Liaison

1

- H. C. Flemister

March 19, 1965

Ail:

FIED

distra

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr ..

DeL.oach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt.

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ho

Mr. Herbert J. Miller, Jr.

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

REC- 99

RAYOND COKX101

105-99401-21

PRANSCOFFIT

EXPORE CONTROL ACT (50

- 40"0-5-G. APP, 2025)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSI

AzE.

NT. 5C0/28/93

45 SAK 293

J5K)

Reference is made to your letter dated March 10,

your the 140: 31%, and to our letter dated

sarch 15, 1965, both concerning the captioned case.

The matter, as outlined in your letter, was

discussed with Harry

terbell, Econoule Officer,

United States

Embasay, Mexico City, Mexico, on March 16, 1965, by our

Legal Attache there.

Zerbell advised that approximately three weeks

ago he was informed that a representative of the United States

Attorney for the Bastern District of Texas would come to

Mexico and contact him for the purpose of discussing this

case and the posstbility of obtaining the documents referred

to in your letter: Lerbell stated that as of Harch 16, 1965,

the United States

Attorney's representative had not come to

Mexico.

Zerbell was of the opinion that it would be

premature at this time for our Legal Attache to contact

the attorney general of lexico and ho requested that me

take no action in this regard until he receives additional

instructions from the United States Department of. Comerce

and from the aforementioned United States Attorney's office.

In view of the foregoing and in the absence of a

specifie request from you, we plan to take no

further action

in-this natter at this time.

-1 - Legat, Mexico City

48/9

Classi

983RAS/fl

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Detached)

N1:121

Hore jad ad

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

MAILED 19

MAR 19 1965

COMM-FBI

son,

gen

TELETYPE

H.C. FIEN

RA $49 A0

Nt 70953

DocId: 32305928 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mr. Herbert J. Miller, Jr.

Assistant Attorney General

NOLD:

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division; by

Letter 3/10/05, requested our assistance in securing information

from Mexican Government in connection with a case being handled

by Department.

Subjects in violation of embargo shipped American-

made automotive parts from Texas to Mexico and

subsequently to

Cuba.

Cortez, who is President of Transcontinental S. A.y was

governento seatse ianity and la scheduled to be a key

witness.

He told USA for Bastera District of Texas

that certain documents of his finn would serve as corroborative

evidence.

Cortez's

firm, however, has been liquidated and

liquidator has

declined to show records to U.s, Government

representatives.

AAG,

in referenced letter; indicated that

he

was aware or Legat was in contact with AG of Mexico on almost

daily basis and requested that we have our Legat request AG of

Mexico to persuade liquidator to make his records available.

AAG suggested we have our Legat contact Marry Zerbell, referred

to above.

confidentially

In addition to information in this letter, Zerbell

told Legat that someone in Washington sometime

ago approached CIA about obtaining instant documents as CIA

in Mexico City has Clandestine means of obtaining docunents

if necessary.

Legat advised AG of Mexico personally known to

hin and would probably be cooperative in attempting toobtain

documents providing tramework of Mexican law would permit him co

do 80.

(U)

1211414

NN 30953

Doold: 32303928

Page 4

---

