# 124-10168-10040

## Page 1

124-10168-10040)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10168-10040

RECORD _SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116391-41X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH, SAM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1970

PAGES: 85

SUBJECT: CIA ACT, ANTI-CASTRO ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

11/03/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(A)

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

EBF, INC ADMIN PAGES

HW 50953

DocId: 32169180 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL INEDELATION COUTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIDIEL

DATE 06-12-2023 EX E54493242 ADC #

COME SEES CORRENT

Memorandum

Pr.0r

Release was made to

Rickefeller

Commission

10)

The Director

3/16/8/

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON-FCIM II,

4.2.

#RO%

SA San Payich

DATE OF REVIEW

3/13/90

то

4722, 330

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

siller

RELATIONS WITH CIA

HEREINIS UNCLASSIFLED

EXCEPIWHERE SHOWN

CIA INTO ON pa ZiE22

only was Declassed per

JohN E. BacoN 8/27180

OTHERWISE

icfcience is made to my lettors dated March 2 and

march 5, 1970. In my lotter of March 6, 1970, I stated "it

is importani to emphasizo that the Bureau can

also producc

an oxtensive list oi justified gricvancos.

It is my undei-

standing thae tie Ciroctor desired that this list be icentiriod.

Inclocod lororith is " luct of approxinatoly 75 itens. u

This list should not be considered ausolutoly complete.

Prepaintion was predicatod on my personal recollection and n

ICVION OÏ BUrCAU 1000206.

To make this list nore conplote and

specilically reciate would nocessitate the review of thousands

of lilos. The enclosed list con be surpontod by Burcau records.

also must be kont in mind in councution with our craluntion

of the alleged Cid grievances which I previously listed.

I realizo that it is presumptuous on my part, but

If the Director fools that our Duenu vorli can bonefit by i

personal discusion between the Director and nycli, I an

laundiablo until april 3, 1970. 1 plan to leave the crea

immediately therentior for an extended period.

AC: JON:

REC- ET

62-80750-478

80 APR-1 10%6

For infornation.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONITO

Enclosure

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIDA

1

- Mr. Deloach

HELLAGE OF CIA INFORM

1

Mi. Sullivan

IN IHIS, DOCUMENT.

1

- ir. Prpich

SJP:*

(4)

RPV8/98

Charitiodby T2

Exempt from

Date of Dectasication

11-11-85

71 43 13

lassitied bra

Daglessit,

OADR

GAI

8Oт{+3

finite

668.5L0/GCL

519198

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 2

---

## Page 3

EAT INEDEXATICN CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIEIED

DATE 06-12-2023 BY E54196K42 ADG

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

AS BRACKETEO R6. 3

20 March 1970

MAR 20 1970

KP 1/8/98

The Honorable J. Edgar Hoover

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washingion, D.C.

FRT INFO

5668 SuO/Gee

Dear Mr. Hoover:

{6)

(58R5 2/9/98 4/2/98

We have completed our review of domestic positive intelligence

collection engendered by your letter of ll March 1970. We warmly

welcome periodic rcexamination by our two agencies of the implemen...

ration oi che isuo agreemen aud de cicine ui rustare incitageace

which you proposed.

I concur also with your comments that there is

a need for close coordination of our efforts in the field of positive and

counterintelligence coliection.

To be most effective, I agree that it

is essential for this Agency, together with your Bureau, to conduct a

continuing analysis o1 clandestine collection activity.

The product is

of growing importance to the national security and to the United States

Intelligence Community.

Therefore we endorse your proposal for a

reexamination and bespeak your desires as to how this might be

conducted.

With regard to the 1966 set of ground rules, which you sent to

the then Director, Vice Admiral William E. Raborn, Jr., the compe-

Yent work of our respective representatives did, in fact, produce an

effective and realistic agreement. I welcome your statement that no

major problems have been encountered since its adoption.

I feel strongly that there are other related subjects, of similar

importance to the national security, which warrant periodic recxamina-

tion since they have a direct bearing on domestic clandestine collestion

of positive intelligence.

REC 8

MAY 6 1970

SECRET

Exclact: "en cutomatie,

Connora: ing and

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• ...

As a result of our review, engendered by your letter, I believe

that the following subjects are deserving of your personal consideration:

(1)" Audio cóveräge. Audio coverage provides timely

intelligence of inestimabie worth to U.S. officials for

policy planning, early warning, and accurate guidance

necessary for the improvement of operational and collec-

tion activity here and abroad.

Audio coverage is unique

production because it is readily subject to local cross-

checking and evaluation which is far more difficult and

costly to achieve abroad. Further, such coverage is on

targets which affect directly the national interests.

For several years your Bureau had been recep-

tive to requirements and leads which resulted in valuable

coverage.

The quality of your production proved that

jour Buicau alono possessco capabilitico and exporionas

which cannot be duplicated by any other U.s. agency.

On 2 October 1969 two related requests for audio

coverage were submitted by this Agency pertaining to

positive intelligence targets, one of whom had KGB connec-

tions.

(I refer to the case of d

V.) Your Bureau replied that henceforth the

Agency should refer all such cases directly to the Attorney

General for approval.

It is suggested that the question of audio coverage

beireopened between representatives of your Bureau and

this Agency. I would welcome your thoughts and observa

tions on this subject.

I wish to assure you that I believe that this sensitive

type of collection should be implemented under rigid and

stringent controls. This is absolutely necessary in order to

maintain the highest standard of security both in instituting

the coverage and for the exploitation of the product. (An

excellent example of this is demonstrated in your effective

and secure production of SCOPE. )(s)

2

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

'"""

(2) Mail Covérage. Another much needed intelli--

gence tool is mail coverage.. Its importance has been

proven in the past.

I have the impression that it has

been discontinued, and I would suggest that our represen-

tatives should confer and examine together whether this

assel: might be deployed against communications of the

oviet Bloc

e" Left, and identified foreign agents.

(3)

CIA Technical Scrvices.

A significant expendi-

ture of this Agency's money and personnel has been com-

milied to respaich and development for the improvement

of technical aids.

This Agency has provided your Bureau

with an appreciation of our resources and capabilities, and

has offered you at cost or giatis our most sophisticated

equipment.

Although we will continue these services, we would welcome

any suggestions from your Bureau for improvement in the

technical field including proposals how these assets' can be

better employed. Your comments will be particularly

appreciated in view of our mutual interests in implementing

lopcration

(4) Courses in Positive Intelligence Requirements and

Reporting: Since the collection and reporting of positive

foreign intelligence is, as you say, only incidental to your

main internal security and counterintelligence responsibili-

ties,

I realize that your personnel are somewhat at a dis-

advantage in cariying out the evaluating and reporting

processes necessary for the conduct of positive intelligence.

At our 1966 conference, we offered to institute positive intel-

ligence training courses, including reports writing and

*This section describes sorences

for

technial intelligences collection.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

analysis,.

for FBI personnel. In soliciting your views on

the desirability. of this type of training, I wish to reiterate

our willingness to provide such instruction.

It would be

designed to expose the needs of the Intelligence Community

in depth, thus making the Current Intelligence Reporting

List (CIRL) more meaningful to your personnel.

(5) Seminars on Opposition Services.

• Given the

growing sophistication and increased capabilities of hostile

intelligence services, it is suggested that CIA and FBI

experts in this field meet as required at our respective

Headquarters, the Washington and New York Field Offices,

in order to keep abreast of new developments, modus

operandi, operational tasks, and diverse missions of

I know that you will agree with me

that no opportunities for improvement should be over-

looked which might haln on negate the afforts of hostile

services who are charged with undermining the security

of the United States. These sessions should also provide

an opportunity to explore and devise new means to pene-

trate and neutralize these inimical forces.

(6) Live Bloc Sources. The record of our coopera-.

tion and coordination to exploit live penetrations and defec-

tors from Bloc sources proves the success of our mutual

effort.

I believe that there is room for substantial improve-

ment in achieving a more uniform and efficient exploitation

of the positive intelligence potential of certain of these

sensitive sources.

I would invite your thoughts on how we

may better coordinate requirements for these sources and

establish a more thorough evaluation of their positive

intelligence production before it is given general dissemina-

tion within the Government.

Our review would suggest that

there are good reasons for consultation to explore the

development of higher quality live sources, for example

Code cierks. Ts,

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

(7) Live Sources in the Non-Bloc Area.. Sources

such as code clerksand diplomats are a fertile field for

procurement of much-needed intelligence relating to the

activities of certain Latin American and Middle Eastern

countries which are expanding their subversive and

terrorist activities, even to the United States. I do not.

feel confident that both agencies have adequately exploited

the full potential of this field, and would urge that this

subject be explored by our respective representatives.

(8) New Left and Racial Matters. There is already

a substantial exchange of information in this field. Limi-

tations of manpower raise a serious question as to whether

both agencies can keep pace with future unpredictable

developments.

The increasingly close connection between

these forces in the United States and hostile elements

abroad has been well established by both of our agencies.

(I feel it would be in our mutual interest to determine how

we can besi employ mure wisely oui linited tranpowce,

knowing that this problem, which embraces bombings,

hijacking, assassination, and the demeaning of law enforce -

ment officers, is international in scope.

(9) Relations with Domestic Field Offices and Legal

Attaches. I do not feel that there are any serious conflicts

in this area but there may be room for improving the quality

of liaison in order to expand positive intelligence collection.

Given the changing situations both here and abroad, periodic

re-examination of field relations could assist both agencies

to make mutually-agreed adjustments.

Mr. Hoover, I wish to assure you that I value highly your personal

judgment in affairs bearing on the national security.

I know that your

experience is derived from a unique lifetime of dedicated service to our

country. In this spirit,

'I welcome sincerely your observations on the

foregoing agenda and solicit your thoughts regarding any other item

which you deem worthy of the attention of your Bureau and this Agency.

Faithfully yours,

Richard Helms

Director

SEGRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DECLASSLEIDATION AUTHCEITE ERCUS

FBI AUTCUATIC DECLASEIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 05-12-2023

EX: D644033X42

EBT ILECELATION CULI

ra..

SECRET

CASES AND/E SITUATIONS

INVOLVING COLICTS WITH THE

CENTRAL INPDGLIGEACE AGENCY (CIA)

(1) LOCASE (THY RORIS MORROS CASE)

This was a sensitive Sovict-espionage case

which originated in 1943

and terminated for the most

"part in 195?." The case had many wide foreign ramifi-

cations and historically has been, and undoubtedly

will be, one of the most important and involved cases

of soviet operations in this courtry and abroad. We

did not dissominate any intormation of signilicance

' in this case until 1954. On various occasions when

the Linizon agent has become involved in heated argu-

ments with CIA officials, they have seen fit to raise

this case as an outsionding example of FBI failure to

cooperate with the Aroney.

The position taken by CIA

that it shouid have been auvised regurding the

Soviet operational activity in foreign countries,

claining that

the Agency rould have had the opportunity

¡o develop more intornation of significance, identify

Soviet ag

Its, and possibly prepare conditions for

, recru. tneii or daubling of Soviet operatives.

We did

not disseminate our reports to CIA because of the

extreme sensitl.ity oi the case. We actually did not

permit Cil to handle any investications relating to

Ithe MOCASE until 1957.

In 1957, CIA complained that it certainly had

every right to have raccived the information earlier

because nany aspecto of the liCCASE portained to CIA

employces and oporations. CIA further argued that it

had been greatly handichuped in effectively carrying out

the leads in 1957 because the leads were given to the

Agency at the same time that the case vas publicized.

The drency argucd that the failure of the Bureau to

coordinate with CIA those French aspects of the case

permitted the french, rather than the U.S., to play a

I dominating role in Europe.

PER MANGALO RELEASE (CA.

788-1826

5668 so/Gee

(0(6)

29198442/98

SECRET.

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

How

much

information CIA has developed over

the years

concerning our operational activity in

Mexico City is unknown.

however, we should ear-in

mind that former Special Agent George Munto

many of our operations

in Mexico, including key intor-

mants, and subsequently began performing services for

CIA alter he loft the Bureau.

We also should not

forget that Americans operating in Latin American

countries for one agency are hoavily exposed to the

resources of another u. he intelligence or investigative:

agency.

This Agent knows from personal

experience that

operating in these areas constitutes a "very small world"

and the exposure to leaks and errors is considerable.

(3) THE ABEL CASE

Although CiA has no. raised the point for

several years, the prevailing attitude mas, and probably

still exists,

that the rei

did not play it square with

STA in the Abel

age by not moring cortain that the

Agency mes given the proper recognition foi its contri

¡butions.

CIA fcols that in the first place,

there would

not have been any U. S. access or avnilability to the

source in this cuse, Reino Hayhanen, because CIA tool:

the full responsibility for noving

Hayhanen from France

Ito the U. S. in 1957.

Cia clains it took the risk and

responsibility of doing this after the Burcau declired

to become involved in any operation designed to transport

Hayhanen to the U. S.

It should be noted that Hayhanen

iwas an alcoholic and

thet his first contacts with CIA

In Paris raised questions concerning Hayhanen's mental

istability.

After Hayhonen arrived in the U. S., we

arlanged access to him for a period, the pulpose of

which was to obtain a complete story of his intelli-

gence activitics in the U. S. and we were particularly

interested in identifying all of his associates,

es-

pecially the man

who later was identified as Rudolph

Abel.

After a short handling period in the U. S., we

dropped Hayhanen because he became a problen.

It was

an extremoly critical situation because we had not yet

lidentified Abel. CIA agreed to take the responsibility

Hor the carrying and safeguarding of Hayhanen but ne

SECRET

- 4.

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(7) CIA

countries

with

far botter. inpressions than in the

past.

In addition, we have learned nore about these

countries, their scryices, and their security chiefs

by spending& fow minutes with them.

Needless

to say,

this

kind oi

trectment has

aldo uneasurably helped

OUr

Legal Attacles.

(U)

/(0)

- DUTCH

INTEREST IN SOVIST ESPIONAGE ACTIVITY

In 1965,

the Dutch Internal Security Services

(U)

he process of investigating individuals in

naurry at thegereau

At that time, our relations

ith the Dutch had been practically noncristent becaus

the ButchShed failed to honestly

deal with us in the

case of Joseph Petersen, & Dutch

Official Who had been

cLandestinely collecting

-(U)

security Fency.

when Crapelligence at the National

(V)

Approached us, we toid

the Arencysthat

the Duichcould suomit their request

through diplomatic chanels.

We subscquently told CIA 16

we would not handle the interviers for the lutch.

stuck to our position.

Cia surrendered buthyelt that

(0)

(U)

we were impairing their efforts to gather information

leoncerning Soviet-espionage activities in Europe.

(Walter G. Krivitsky, Bufile - 100-11116)

(8) COLONEL JOINI GROMBACH (PAT O'BLIEN)

Colonel John Grombach was a retired U. S.

Army officer who, during World War Il, established

private intelligence notyork, operating throughout the

world but prinarily in Lurope.

His sources included

any number of Europoon exiles who came to the U.S.

While he was in business, he was financed by the State

Jeparthent

then the Department of the arny, and in the

later 1940's and into the 1950's by CIA.

Grombach

established contact with the Bureau through one of

his subordinates, Pat O'Brien, sho periodically called

U)

SECRET

- 7=

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECREI

(U)

on

us and furnished information which Gronbach felt

was of intorest

This discomination through

Pat O'Brien continued during the period of Grombach's

relationship with CIA: We never intormed CIA that we

vere receiving such intornation wich aiso was ot

interest io the Agency. It is possible that Grombach

had given the same date to cid but we do not know.

CIA

and Gronbach cloched and the relationship was severed

in an atmosphore of severe bitüorness,

In the

years of its.conlings,with Gronbach, the agency had

succossfully penetrated the latter's organization and

allegedly had icontified many of

the souices.

CIA

hinted to the Linison ligent that it had become aware

of the relationship between Gronbach's organization

and the sureau.

How much CId roally learned about

this relationship is not known but is its penetrations

were significant,

the Agency may have developed evidence

to justify a charge that the Bureau had withheld infor-

nation

from CIA:

particularly when we vore receiving

the data

fion an

organisatzon which was financed by

the 180537

(Eu5110 + 92-77906)

(9) COMMISSION ON THE

ORCAIXZACION OF THE

EXECUTIVE PRANCIL DE TIE GOVUENLENT

(Herbert Hoover Commission - 1954)

In October, 1054, & tosk force of the captioned

Comission initiated a survey of CIA's operations under

the leadershipo General Wark W. Clarli.

In January, 1955,

we were advised by a representative of

the task force

that Sonator Joseph loCarthy had furnished the group a

list of CIA employces who were considered subversive.

CIA becane cognizant of this development and there was

talk within the Agency that the Bureau had furnished

the names to the Senator.

informally approached on this, he flatly told the Agency

to officinlly submit its charges.

The Agency never did.

What information CiA may have had on this matter as it

pertained to the Bureau is not known.

It is possible thri

the Agency's attitude was strictly predicated on a knowledge

that we maintained liaison with the Senator's Commitice.

(Relations with CIA, Bufile - 62-30750)

SECRET

-8-

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

(10) INTORNAL. SECURITY LEADS. IN FOREIGN. COUNTRIES

During the 1950's,

we gave our Legal Attaches

nunerous icads atoming fron internal security coses in

the U.s.

In many instances ve did not see fit to

notify CIA although

the agency always maintoined that

you could not soparate "intornal Security" fron "counter-

intelligence," namely a lead in fronce pertaining to &

communist in the U.S.wrranced adpistug.Oll, it noty

at least aaling the Agoney to handle the lead.

In the

Inst sevoral veers, it is not believed that there is

any basis for compinint since ve have regulerly been

notifying CiA concerning subjects of cases vio travel

abroad.

In the Logal attache is investigating, CiA is

notified in order to avoid

duplicate efto.ts.

There

have been exceptions where we have taken the position

that CIA should not be notified because if the sensitivity

of the matter.

How many such exceptions are known to

cia cannot be establianed trom our iides; however,

we

tigate, they contact meny of the some foreich officials

normally contacced by. Cid. How many of these foreign

officials are CIA intormantegor on the Agency paysoll,

is unknowil.

(11) BURRAU OPARATIONS IN CUBA

We operated informants in Cuba when we had a

on activities of communists and other subversives in

we did not coordinate our operations yith

CIA.

We,

aid not advise the agency that we had such

sources however, in 1960, after Castro

came on the

scene,,

it becone infeasible to handle certain informants

in a secure nanner. Mapproval was granted to turn certain

infornants over to cil.

What these informants may have

subsequently told CIA about past Bureau operations is

unknown.

This iten is boing cited in the event CIA had

evidence to catablish that we hod been operation. in

cuba and nac 22

coordianted with the agency pursuant

to DIreCtIVES!

Memorandum Donahoe to

Beinont, February

5,

1960, re: "Partido Socialiata Popular," 64-200-210, 2377

and tenorenuun Frohbose to Belmont

131(5639-4)

February 3, 1900, re:

(U)

SECRET

. -9-

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

(12) BUREAU OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL - 1959

In 1959 the u.s. Ambassador in "Brazil accused

our Legal Attache of cosogin, in uncoordinated coveri

intelligence

activity

"ot a notuze shich i bolieve

excreds his terns of r'oferenco."

The Anbassador lurther

indicated that CIA

was unhappy over the Logal Attache's

activities and

the Agency allegedly had told the Ambassador

that the Legal steacho had dissoninated information from

a source who was a

fabricator or a provocator.

This

situstion arose es

Negal Attache

peration of an informant in Bruzild Some or th

information that he received from

the informant was

of a derogatory

natura and related to & Brazilian

Who

(U)

-(U)

was being

touted as a Fresidential candidate.

CIA

astred for the idontity of the informant and ve told

the agency that the person could not be identified

because he did not wish that his identity be disclosed.

This case is being cited becuuse

_CiA my have evidence

that we had been operacional in Brazilshed not coordi

(U)

nated purouant to Dircotives, and that the matter was

further occravated because of the alleged unreliability

of the intornation.

Memorandum Roach to Belnont,

May 2. 19538

"Willian I. Friedman, Legal Attache,

Rio de Janeiro," 07-129840) and (Hemorandun Roach to

(U)

Belmont,

• May

1959

Brazili

1 To 7-16161 (

re: "Soviet-Satellite Activities -

(13)

BORDER COVERAGE

In June, 1957, our Phochi: Office presented a

probien concerning the Bureau's handling of informants

on the Mexican border. These informants were operating

inside Mexico.

The problen was predicated or situations

which night arise as the result of CIA's endeavors to

develop informants who already were being handled by the

Bureau. It was pointed out that CIA logically could

come in contact with such sources and could make approaches

for r'ecruitment. It was recommended and approved that

in order to protect our coverage in the border aren, a

valuable, trusted, and reliable confidential source would

continue

to be utilized even it he were contaced by CIA.

Our policy was that we would not identify our sources to

the Ageicy.

SECRET

- 10 -

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECREI

How much Chl learned about our border coverage

is not known

Again,

it"

pointed out that former

Bureau

Agent

George Munro

ày have been Imowledneable.

As indicated,

he later bogan: porforming services 1or

If CIA

lcarned that ve were operating infornants

• in toxico, it couls use such intoration as additional

evidence of Bureau inilure to cooperate and coordinate

with the

Agency pursuant to Directivos.

(Memorandum

Roach to Belmont, Tune

14, 1057, re"Communist Coverage

100-35601512381

(U)

(14) EARPORT CASE JES U

Ill Hay:

(U)

(U)

captioned

RaS tO DAVE

June 16-19 5h957.

A question arose as to whether CIA

ahnute be tafonted annerning theranuble Arents

IRV01

to Swi taer land. Sit is recommended and approved

not

advise CIA.

-(U)

-(U)

(0)

What is inportant

hare

is that CIA established

contact withsouz double agent

one point. The Agency

may have had further contact

Mthout our knowledse.

The

Agency may have aiso picked up the contact with the Soviet sy u

case is being highlighted since we

the possibillty that the agency ha

to demonstra

• that we vere operational En Europof nd touee

- (U)

did not coordinate with the Agency.

(lemorandum Breniran

to Belront, june 10: 1957, re;

(CARPORT, " 105-25453-1325)JS) (U)

(15) CIA REQUESTO FOR L REAU LECTURE ON COMMUNISM IN TUE U.S.

On Septenber 25, 1958, CIA inquired if i. C.

Sullivan could give & lecture on the communist movenent

in the U.S. It was recomnonded that Sullivan give the

lecture. Such lectures were being afforded in other parts

of the Government.

The Director made the notation "We

cannot make Sullivan avnilable to this outfit." The

Agency accepted this as an affront and a blatant refusal

SECRET

. - 11-

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRE,

•to cooperate on a nost inportant subject of interest

to both-agencies.

(Menorandun Sullivan to Betnont,

october 1, 1955, re: "Request for Lecture on Cormunisn

by CIA, ")

(10) Cres Or

On July

1956

an official of the state

Departnerit contraentiatty advised the bureat that are

CIA employee in Moscow, had been

involved in an attair

with & foviet girl.

According

to our source,

to the f viet

firi.

allegedly hod furnished information

We checked with the State Departmont

and CIA und we confirned that

bech invoived in

an atlair and that he had been recalled. According to

CIA end State Deportment, there vas no indication that

Shed been involved in any espionage against the

U,S. CIA gave consideration to roquesting the Burenu

to identily its source and then changed ito mind.

Whether CIA has documented this as an instance there

the Bureau foiled to cooperate by not volunteering the

source is a matter of conjecture but, it is a case that

should be kept in nind.

(17) THIE

OPERATION

In April, 1963, we becane involved with CIA in

that Agencyis efforts to

COLLACE SENSITIVe INICIMALIO

•elnting to french Government intentions to conduc

(U)

espionage againat the u.

had access to a sensitive

source,

was in a pocition to maise

available nighly inportant Grench documents.

1963, CIA intorned us that our Lenn Attache inFart plas

14, (1)

(U)

locally contacted CIa concerning this matter.

CIA Menda

quarters was highly disturbed because its office infarisiss

had not been cut in on this operation and the Agency wanted

• (U)

to be infoined regarding the nature and the extent of our

dissemination of CIA information to our Legal Attache.

We

- 12 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

(V)

(U)

(U)

(V)

(U)

(U)

deteri

„ned

that the logal Attachehad made inquiries in

Parian response to loads nich had been sent iron "Bureau

Headquarters.

This matter is being highlighted because

it nas a vitally inportant oporation to CIA and the agency

had received indications that information had been leaked

to Prench authoritios. Sle have no evidence or reason to

believe that the Legal

Attache Office ever involved itzelf

in any such leal.

However,

ve should not, under any cir

cumstances,

discount the fact that CIAlins penetratod

Incuch services

ma has hed accesa

to sensitive ipformation

brisas The Wrenc

have always

had an outstanding cap

01

tappinG

Prones and installing microphones in

Paris Such coverege on U.s. officials: incluaths their

Icsidences, should never be excluded. The information we

hod conveyed

el attache possibly may have

nemired by the rench ahrough elnndesting coverage:

been

CIA

possibly could charge us with nandling their sensitive

information in an incooure unnner by trangnitting it to

Paris without conferring with the Agency.

In connection with

allored French esptonage

activity in the Jo

Se, CIA has never been satistied with

the efforts nade by

the Bureau.

The Agency

possibly could

taite the position that te looked lightly it the allogations

and did not pursue & no

er which,

in their eyes.

merited

a more aggressive approich. (Bufile -

For

the trench intelligence

tene service steals penetrated by

• position that

(U)

the Soviets The Agency has pointed out thit if the French]es)U)

are collecting

sensitive information in the u. s.,

the

product is ending up in MoscowS/In Janunry,

1964

reviewed

the strous of our investigation of French Intel- (U

ligence activities in the U.s.

The Director commented

"I think this whole thing has been imginary on the part

of CIA which has been played as a sucker by

I would waste no more time on it at least until a1l CIA

restrictions are

by not penittan "enored." Cla did imposa restrictiong

us to pursue certain loads because it

feared that its sensitive source woul. be jeopardized.

(Bufile -

- 13 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECREI

from CIA.

We did not obtain clearance from ClA for

the inclusion ofthis intornation in our nonograph.

Clearance approval nas not obtained because of the

urgency of the

cocuncnt.

CiA was irritated becruze

it considered our notion'& distinct Violation of the

third agency rule. The agency.

"never made any protest.

(21) BUREAU INFORMANTS IN GUARDIALAU

(0)

(V)

In 1966, and 1967, we vere operating informants.

in Guatenala]S)At the inception of our operational ac-

tivity,

ciA was not intormed.

In one case, we finally

were able to effect the noceanly arrangements with CIA

the Burenu would be peraitted to run the informant

11 Guarengie elIn the second instance, we established an

"CIA in October, 1901, t12)

tinue handling an intornont in Guatentia

infornation collected fron the informant.

There tHO CaSeS

had all the makingo oi a condict.

Can was under one

definite impression that ve had boen running these

informants before we had finemy coordinat

with them.

It is true that the CIA Chief In Guatenala

vas much

incensed but no issue was made at CIA Headquarters and

theratter was put to rest.

CiA may have developed concrete evidence that

we were operating in Guatemala bearing in mind that in

a placo such is Guatomala City Sit would not be difficult

for & CIA intelligence officer to spoù an fs). Agent in

contact with Cuntennians Jour potenjal vulterability 1s

that we were operating in Gustenala

ithout coordineting

with Cia.

(U)

(U)

(U)(V)

(U)

-(U)

(U)

(U)

(22)

The information emanating from the caption 1

sensitive Bureau operation has been disseminated to CIA

and other agencies for several years.

The sensitive

suurce has traveled abroad numerous times and his trips

- 15 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECREI

(25) ESTACLISEUENT OF BURSAU LIAISON WITH

DUTCH INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICE

1950

1960, ouf Legal Attache, Bonn,

(U)

(U)

-(U)

been handled through CIASmile indicated that before there

was any change in procedure, it would be necessary for

CiA and rBi to come to come

form of an agreement.

Allen

Dulles subsequently exprossed disappointent in that his

Agency had not been contected by the Bureau prior to

exploring the liaison arrangenent.

We eventually conferred

with CIA and came to an agreement satisfactory to ail

parties concerned.

Again, CIA could

cite this as an instance where

we failed to coordinate with the Agency in line with

National Security Council Directires.

Genrendum Prohhose

to Belmont, March 3, 1060, re:

"Legal Attacie

Operations

Norway, lonmark, Sweden, and the liotherlande," 66-18973-123)

In the latter part of 1059 we gave considocation to

establishing a Legal Attache in Copennagen,. Dennark:.

The

purpose of the assignuent was to follow Bureau leads in

Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Holland.

We did not inform

CIA of our intentions.

(enorandum Frohbose to Selnont,

January 14,

1950, re: "Legal Atiache Operations, The

Netherlands, " 66-18973-113)

(26) BUREAU DISSEMINATION OF COUNTARINTALLIGENCE

INTORILATION TO FORSION SERVICES - 1962

(V)

By letter dated November 7, 1962, CIA raised

questions concerning the propriety of Burcau dissemination

of counterintelligence information to foreign intelligence

services. CiA, at that time, had particular reference to

zion which our Local Attache had transmitted to the

Greet intelligence fervice concerning ab operations. Cli

took the position that pursuant to the coordinating

- 17 -

SECRE

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SEGREI

(U)

Directive, the Bureau as obligated to coordinate with

CIA PrIOT

to such dissemination.

The particular data

had

emanated fron one of qui sensitive dr

mans sources

#. Ve roon ided to Claby stating that the

intoraation was the product of an internal security

operation and did not rciate to any operation activity

abroad.

Cid again surrendered.

The Agency could argue

hat it was responsibe for foilowing covet matter

ith the CreeR intelligence Service and that we had &

obligation of coordinating with the Agency.

(Memorandun

Bronigen to Sullivan, Hovenber 9, 1962, re:

(27) "TIS INVISIOUS GOVERNHENT, "A BOOK AUTHORES BX

DAVID WISE AND THOMAS ROSS

In August, 1963, we received information indi

cating that Vise and Ross were in the process of gathering

material for a book pertaining to activitics of U.s.

intelligenon actinttioe:

Botti

Roan and Wise contarter

the Bureau.

It was recowonded that linison orally advise

CIA

that those two individuals vere

preparing a book con

cerning U. 5, intelligenco agencies. Thi Director noted

"I see no reason doing so."

It is not known if CIA was avare of the contact

with the Bureau.

Wise and Rose subsequently published the

book which contained extremely derogatory information

concerning CIA.

(Memorandun Jones to Deloach, re: "David

Wise of the "New York Herald Tribune" and Thomas Ross 0f

the "Chicago Sun Tines")

(28) COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES - AFRICA

In April, 1960, CIA inquired if the Bureau would

give any consideration to assisting the Agency toward

developing coverage in Africa.

CiA was looking tor the

services of any Negro informant who might be available.

The Agency also inquired about placing a Negro in the

Communist Party, USA,

under a plan which would have as

an eventual objective, the sending of the informant to

- 18 -

SECREL

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECR

vould recstablish technical

In the same month, CIA inquired if the Bureau

surveillance coverage on

"who CIA felt was a key figure in the

T1:1SR1EC

not serene 1ie anistligence data to the

• Untelligence service

We declined to reinstitute

the: coverage..Ci considered the matter important becnuse:

01 its reintionship to the ideast

crisis.

On October 21, 1969, we toid CIA that future

requests from Cia for technical surveillance coverage

should be transmitted by the Agency directly to the

Attorney General.

CIA has never made any official conmeni or

protest but it has considered the aforc-mentioned action

by the. Burenu as unfriendly and uncooperative.

The Agency

has looked to the Buraru

as the logical point of contret

and

as the only organization having the resources and capabilities

of adequately detornining if such coverage is even feasible.

(se,

The Liaison Agent recalls fragnents of oth:

situations or conflicts which occured over the years

und

which resulted in the voicinga CIA displeasure or criticism.

The Agont cannot recall the nunes of the cases which is

necessary to acquire the required data.

There was one

instance carly in the 1950's which involved information

received from a source of unknown reliability charging

Alien Dulles with having been a communic and a spy while

in Europe.

We croseninated the information to several

agencies. Dulles esploded but never lodged a protest.

The Agent also has recollection of instances when

CIA alleged that its source or informant was compromised by

Bureau revelation of CIl infornation during the course of

interviews conducted by us.

Techuically, this would be a

violation of the third agency rule and, if CIA had hard

core facts, we would be vulnerablo, particularly if an

important informant vas lost. CIA never made any official

issue or protest.

- 24 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 20

---

## Page 21

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 06-12-2023

BY: 304493142

SECRÉT

LIST OF BUSHAU CRIDVANCES

1.

ATRICKS CHINST DUPPAU CHENICO CITY AND FRANCE - Í951)

Although Ageat Papich did not berin handling Linicon

with Ca: until 1052, it is inportoni to reicr to highly signi-

ficuni differonoes with CIA which culminated in a serious

conflict in the foil of 1901.

Our Loral Attaches in Mexico City

and Paris reported tai CIa reprocontatives were attocking the

Burcal, were endcavoring to piace us in an unfavornble light,

were questioning our jurisdiction, and vere naising disparaging

remarks concerning the Burcau.

some of this was sunned up by

characicrising it as covert hostility within Cid, stemming

largoly from disgruntled jorner enployees of the FBI.

In October, 1951, General Walter Bedull Snith, then

Director of CIA, asked to

meet with the Director and other

Bureau represontatives for the purpose of discussing the

existing difierences.

General Smith denied that there was any

covrt hostilito aminst the Bureau and mintainod thai there

was & gene 2)

fealing of respect for us.

there ind been isulated instances of friction for which Ci

. must

accept its share of responsibility.

It is my recollection that the Director and other

Buronu officinis did meet with General Snith, at which time

guidelines wore set forth for maintaining future relations

between tho tro agencies.

I was not able to find n monorancin

of record coving this meeting. (eate

2. PROSOLYNING CY EUSZAU PERSONIOL BY CIA

The Archt clearly recalls that early in the 1950's

te encountered difficultion with CiA because the Agency allegedly

was recruiting bureau cnployed personnel. We vigorously pio-

tested, and subsequently he agency advised that it would follow

a policy of not having'any contact with a Bureau employee until

the individual had boen soparated from the burcau for a period

of at least thirty anys.

The Agent could not locate the bacl

ground of this matter in the filos revieved by him. It is pos-

sible that the pertinent information lies in the porsonnel file

of some forner Bureau Agent.

KP 48198

SECRET.

TORODOLA

Suso Scolo

(JAC) 24798 412/98

O(6)

62-88750-4784

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SEGRET

7.' CASE OF POLISE SOCHEN - DETECTORS - 1954

*w"By Tetter dited october IS, 1o34, & vory stron

.?*:

letter

'Defector Commadlee at CRA:

of protest yes sent to generalse idscar rade reverence la

ot the Intergency

political asylum which vas

being considered for coxtain Polish

sailor"s

who had been seized by the Chinese Natsonalist Government.

General Boite discominated a memorandum indicating that members

of the Committed had agreed that in view of commitments made

by the Unitod States and Chinose ofticials, that failure to

arrange re-entry for

tie Polish seamen would have an adverse

effect on the over-all United States Defector Program.

emphasized to Conoral Betts

that this metter had never been

officially

prosented before the Defector Committee. He was

informed that his action vas not conducive to mutual cooperation.

8.

CIA INTERVIEW OF ALIENS IN TUD UNITED STATES • DISCUSSION

VITI ALLEY DULLES DEPRIBER 27..

1955

On september 27, 1955, the Linicou

Agent met with

Allen Dulles, as which tive the CIA Dircetor's attention was

referrod to a matter wich had not yet developed into

& serious

situation but it not properly followed could lead to conflicts

between the two agencios.

Dulles was referred to the contacts

of aliens in the Unitoa

states made by CIA personnel without

first obtaining the necessary clearance from the

• Bureau.

The

requirement for such cledrance vas

clear-cut and purzuant to an

establiched esteement. (62-30750; menorandun Roach to Belmont

September 28, 1955, "Relations with CIA")

9. CIA APPROACH OF A NATIONAL ACADEMY GRADUATE (1955)

In Hovember, 1955, an incident arose

when cas approaches

a. National loademy graduate

to utilize his serviceskin Guatenaia.

This approach was marie while the graduate ras attenaine National-

Academy classes.

A protest vas made to key CIA officials for

not having advised us prior to

establishing contact with the

Academy graquate. (Re:

10.

In December, 1955, we received intormation i dienting

that Cid was in contact with an indivicual whom the Bureau was

developing for utiliention in i double agent operation.

learned that CiA ropresentatives had established contact with

a and had given hin sone advice and guidance without

first checking with the Bureau.

We protested to CIA.

SEGRET

- 3-

HH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRÉT

that he had beon adviced by a CIA official

that the Thi

would be furnishing operational guidence to him. We had never

become involred

IN ANy

such

arrangenet

and ve

later determined

thata.OlArorficlnl/hod.boon.ah.orvor.an. porting. the abave

described misrepresentation.

protoalod the CIA

officio

handling of this matter. (Re:*ord

4)

15.

(U)

On July 20,

1353,

date mined

hait

One 13

had been in contact with the Czec

Military Attached

Washington, D. C.

We further ascertained

that

TAS

CIA employee.

le were informed by Cia

july

21,

1950,

that

the agency had no inforuso. concerning tate reported

contacts vich.

the Caeches,

We later interviewed Ma

it was indicated thet

in lact, nad beer,

2. CA

official concorning his meatines wich are Chech litary

Attached

& lle protested

and CIA submitted a

attor of tolody

(Momorsmum Belmont to Boaronon July 21, 1066

16.

In July,

1056, a statement was made by a state

Department official.

to

the effect that a CIA

employee allegedly

had

advised that the subject, de

soviet agentias beirs per

mitied

to enter the United States so thet his activities

could be covered

and so

that the

Bureau would be in a position

to promote & defection.

the Bureau was not in possession of

any

information indicating that ve had sanctioned the entry

of

the subject for the purpose described above.

she state

Department official was unable to recall the name of the CIA

employee involved; inquixy a: CIA vos negative.

We were not

in a position to identify the CIA employee without conduccing

investimation with teasen are the igency cuing

up with the identity. lie:

17.

By letter dated November S, 1955, we strongly DiO-

tested to CIA bockuse represontatives of that Agency had inter

viewed an ilien in the United States without first obtaining

Clcarance fron the Bureau.

It should be noted that there was

a well-established af cement whereby it was incumbent upon

CIA to first check with the bureau before intervieving any

alien in the United States. (letter to CIA November 8, 1956,

SECRET

- 5-

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

(0)

.(U)

18 .

DARRELL FATRICK LAUNDRZ

Harmer

was a former student nt colunbia University

with when we had been in contact because oi h

assocition

with-1.

Sassinned to 2 0119

SIn December,

1959 г

an

unidenti

Where he

was contacted by

ividual

and

that

the

given

letter indicating

Colonci in

the roofind that he was

interosted

in cooporating with

the United States.

When (Lannorg

returned to the United States,

we pernitied CIA to interview

the subject because of the Agency's fores

ests.

We subsequently

intelligence

intox-

interviewed Baumer

Sat which time he

Intormed us that he had been cautioned b

CiA not to fuinish

pertinct

information io the Bureau.

CiA denied that any such

stateneut was node. (Re: Derrell Patrick: Ilenner) X

(U)

10.

CIA REQUEST FOR INFORMATION CONCEANING A HIGH-SPEED CAMORA-

1957

UI

U)

(U)

The Sen Francisco Office furnished information

indicating

thot CIA had requested a

In an Callorale to tur

nish minus Agency

monaton regarding did oreign inquiries

pertaining

to a high-speed conore manufactured by the coupany.

The mutter was revioned because we wanted to be certain that

CiA was not invaring our jurisdiction.

We did not develop

evidence that cra hod overstepped its jurisdiction. The Director

did

make & noticion,

"O.Ko, but it does seen to me

we give CIA

& pictly wide authority

to explore such a fiold. I"

(Menorandun

Bellont to Boardhan April 10, 195%,

"Flow of

Intelligence Information to soviets and Satellites through

So-Called Channels"')

20 €

On May 23, 1957, CIA advised that one of its repre

sentatives in the field had interviewed the captioned amus

alien who had need to cooperate with the Agency after he

returned to b

CIA conducted this interview without

first obtaining cionrance from, the Bureau.

Such clearance was

necessary pursuant to an esiblished

protest was made to the Agency. (Re:

agrecment.

•A vicorous

SECRET

-6-

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

(U)

(0)

21.

CIA REQUEST FOR TOUR FOR

REPRESENTATIVOS - 1957

COLOMBIAN INTEILIGENCE SErVICE

SIn July, 1957;

Cid requested a lour for several

[Colombian officiots vio

were coming to this country under ClA

Lnvitation

(U)

grossly insulied the Bureau after we had arrested the

ambassado''s chauffour on White Slave Fratric Act charge.

If te so desired, re could give consideration to

accusing CIA of trying to

inpose upon us individuals whon ve

considered undericable in light of the foreroing.

(Memorantum duly 15, 1057, Mooch to Belmont "Representatives

of Colombian Intelligence

Servicel- Request For Bureau Four

by CIA")

U)

22..

REQUEST FOR SECURINY SURVEY OF COUNCIL ON FOREIGN

RELATIONS • NEW YORK CITY • 1957

(и)

On November 15, 1957, our New York Office was con-

tacted by

the local Cid representative who desired to be in

formed if the Bureau could conduct a security survey of the

premases of the councid on coreign herations which were located

ACIOGS

the street from a building occupied by thensoviet

United Nations Delegation The CIA representative indicate

that his visit to our office vas pursuant to instructions

recerved Iron aLden Duises who.

legedly was concerned about

the possibility of the Soviets

establishing covernge of

conversations and discussions which might be held at the Council.

It should be noted that the Council included as members many

well-known personalities, including oificials of the United

States Government.

Pursuant

to instructions, Allen Dulles vas informed

on Movenber 18, 1957, that

we did

not like

the approach used

by CIA in

that

such

a sensitive maticr had been taken up at

the field level rather

than through Bureau Headquarters.

(Menorancum Roach to Belmont November 19, 1957, re "Council

on Foreigh Relations"'

SECRET

-7=

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET

23.

1957:

received information

from

indicating

•States mint de Collar clontlet toen visiting sn

the United

(8)0)

We followed developnents through

and ve. kept Cin advised. The. Agoncy was fully avare of the

situation and particulnily know

that ve were

in contact

with

We sunsoquently received information indicating

that

2 CIA

aployce, estoolisted

contact with

the

(U)

that the action

taken by

• Burecu operation. (re:

A protest was made to CIA for not

their interests

bearing in

possibly could

have

leopardized

-

24.

By letter dated February 10, 1953, we directed a

that agency with interviewing the

& Romanion alien, without first obtaining the nec

cesary clearance mom the

Burecu. he:

25.

ALLACED INPORSONATION OF FBI EPLOYEE

On April 23,

1053, we received infornation indicating

that a CIA employee allegedly had represented herself as being

with the Fb) when she tried to arrange an intorviey with

, an official of the International Association

Machinisis ti Washington, D. C.

0f

gave a signed statement

in which he clained that

had receired a phone call from a

Miss

faster who said she was with the

Upon checking with

CIA,

we vere inforned that Miss

ReMa denied that she had made

such

representation. Memorandum

Moacil to belmont April 25,

1958, "Unknown Subject; f

26.

By letter dated liny 12, 1958, the Bureau protested

to CIA for interviowing an alien

in the Detroit arca without

first obtaining the necessary clearance from the Bureau.

Such clearance

was neccesar

pursuant to established agrement.

(Re:

SECRET

- 8-

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

30 ..

GENERAL RGINIARD GOGLEN

The 190a4 Attacie,

Bony, advised. by letter durec

June

he had bech invited to vioit Genexal

Gehle

the boud of to beat Goenan Intelligence derniougseldera"..

becane

aware of this invitation,

and

informed our Legal

Attache that it was not desired that the

Legat vicit with Gonlen.sour veget vas instructed by the Bureau (ul

to accept the invitation

regaradess

of the CIA position.

We could evaluate the ClA

being

position in this matter as

uncooperative. (Monorancum Roach to Belmont June 17,

1953, "Relations with CIA")

31. CIA INTRUDE IN CHUURSE ALTINS

(V)

In June, 1958, we rada:d

the

question concerning

CIA's failure to achere

• to an arrooment relating to CIA's

recruitment of Chinese aliens in the

United States for over

wellioanna pnerationg.

Under

the areoneni.. CIA was

not to approde. any Chinese alien without tiet checking with

A situation developed in Illinois indicating thet CIA

allegedly hod becone interceted

in recruiting an alien

and

even took some action without tinst checking with us.

expressed our disapproval in a letter to Cla June 12, 1958

(Memorandum Belmont to Boarduan June 9, 1958, "Recruitment

of Chinese Aliens in the United States

for Overseas

(Sy)

Intelligence Operations)

32.

CIA OFFICIAL'S CRITICISM OF "MASTERS OF DECEIT"

(U)

Our Legal Attache, Toryo, obtained a copy of a melo.

randun sent to an oiticial in our embassy in toryo by fo

Chief of the CIA office in Japan. In his cornunication

belittled the value of "insters

Dacoith as an anticonnuriet

weapon in foreign countries.

He clained that the book nertained

only to the Communist Party, USA, which he characterized as a

small, ineitective, traction-ridden organization.

He stated

that t a author of

tlie book was not an intellectual but rather

a policoman. (Memorandum loach to Belmont June 12 and 24,

1953,

"Masters of

Doceit.")

SEGRET

-10 -

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

(U)

33

CIA DEVALOPITNT OF INDONGSTAN

GOVRRNHENT SOURCES IN

THE UNIND SLA2ZR

In May, 1958, CIA furninhed idcutifving and back

pround date concerning three

individuals -

all employoes of the

indonesian

overnment and assigned to the United States.

me her boon deveiopad as a

source of infornation by CIA

Conc

co CLA in Washington, D. C.

and volunicored his services.

we had been developed as

a source by Cil and

been furnishing

some intornation to

the Agency. In & letter datod june

24,

1953, we told CiA

that in the case of

Esses, ve felt

that the

Agency should

have notified us at an eczlica date in order that ve could

have considered expigitation for internal security purg

JOS

at the outset. (se: Indonest?"

Activities • 100-254749

(U)

34.

(MICHAL, COLDEXISKI. A

AKA DR. HEINRICH SCHUSZE

(U)

The subdoes,

121/3 423.

Service, defectod to

the United biares and furnishe

extremely

valuable information.

The beginnings of this case include

Information raising questione concerning CIA

cooperation.

In June, 1953, we developed

indicating

that cia hay, have opened & letter in Switzerland

(U)

been natessed to the Director by

Junt who had

identitied hinselt as Di. Heinzich Schutze

The writer furthe

indicated that he might be connocied with the Polishfintelliconce

Service.

The letter addressod to the Director had Doen placed

an an envelope which,

in turn, hed ended up in the office of

the United States Ambassador in aritacriend.

she subsequenty

recoived a copy of the pesticular coumunication from Cia,

and the contents were such at that tine that no action wus

required by the Buroau. We asked CIA for particulars. lending

to the allosed opening of the letter wich had been addressed

to the Director.

CIA clained that it had not opened the

letter.

inforned by an Agency repre

entative that the basrace lad opened the lotter and then

referica

the matter to CiA.

The contents were such that invos-

tigative action of an extensive nature vas required by CIA

in Europe.

What actually happened at the United States Embass

Is somcthing we may never know. (ichal Golenieveki - 65-55192

(U)

(U)

.. (U)

(U)

(U)

(V)

SEGRET

- 11 -

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

(U)

(U)

(U)

(U)

(U)

(0)

0)

(U)

(U)

35.

...

By lettor dated Junc

we yoiced our concer

Osnesa lten Whom: CI

was considorint for overreas

rocraruhen

CIs denied that an

approach of. the alien had boon, moder Our investantion contra

dicted tho

statonente

emanating from CIA.

Resa

Bureaü file t

36.

On July 18, 1068, CIA requested the Burenu fon

permission to play

obtained

the Burenu to

a recordin of a telephone coloratone,

rocording

had been devel

(U)

8f the Erotian Eubassy

throuch ow Ecositive coverage.

On June

6, 1953,

we had obtained the contents of

conversation between tabnoud

Jordanian Embassy

Air Attache

The convorsation

strongly

closely with

ryptian

that bobbe rocking

(U)

developed

information

evolutionary

indichting

plot,

that Rousan

Key figure in a

the objective of which was to ovorthrow

(U)

retuined to Jordar

and was imprisoned by

King H

saei

08680

agon

information

made available through Cid.

any

implication in any

revolutionary activity

and

he was st

SOnglY SuppOrted

Jordanian

Government.

by son 1n

top officials

in the

King

010 CLA

nat he was on tho

spot

and

that

he

needed

of Rousan':

-Conspiratoria.

(UJ)

activity.

CIA

nak

in we would

permit

the Decording

to

played to the

IS n

stressing

that this vas

the only way

bO

KIng

Hussien

could

be convinced

On

July

18,

1058,

CIa official was adviced that

the Bureau posit

cly would not grant permission to piayin

of the recording

We maintained

that if ve cranted suc

permission,

our.

be seriously

other coverage of a sensitive nature gould

imperile

On July

• 35.

1958,

Allen Dulles asked if the Bureau

would reconsider

position in vier of the critical situation

in the Module 1251

Pursuant to instructions, CIA was then

told that in view

the position in which the Bureau had been

placed, we acceded to Dulles'

request.

CIA was further told

that we were seriously consedering the

termination of all of

our technical surveillances

Pocause we

did not intend to be

placed in such a position in the inture.

On July 22:

1058, Dulles told

the Liaison Agent

that he was very much disturbed over the Director's reaction

He stated that he was not interested in holding a pistol to

SECRET - 12 -

HH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 29

---

## Page 30

SECRET

anybory's hend and he further ind

ating whether or not the accorth

reconmended.

that the

ted that he was delibor-

bould be usedy It. was w

the matter for the

xis to be used by cin

The Directon's notation was,

Jat is in

the-fire now

to whate any more time on

We. will

any dotails

in Fearson's column.

The strong ponition

we took in

resisting

the

dissemination of such sensitive infornation to a

101C1en

goverment

WAS BUllY 309602109

Monoranown roach. to Belmont

dated July

, 195S,

re "CIA Request for Permission to Play

Technical Surveillance Recording to King Hussien,

Jordhh" (S-(u

37

CIA AILEORD PANTICIPATION IN MEXICAN COVERMENT

DEPORTION Or AMERICAY COMMUNISTS

In 1252, CIA officially informed us that

it was

engaged in. a program designed

to diarupt overall communist

activity in loxico.

Ve became concerned because this program

1125

to involve dopartation of undosirables, including

American

conmunists residing in Mexico.

The

implomentation of

such

program could bave resilicd in to reidea of inexican commisis

to the United States.

CIA denied that it was engaged in any

operation

Specifically designed to cust Anerican communists.

In September, 1055; we were informed that the Mexican Government

enbarced on a

strong anticonnunist program and certain

Americ ins wore ordered deported.

We checked with CIA and the

Agency's

chiet

involvod

in Moxico City clained that his Agency was not

(us

The Liaison Agent subsoquently was informed on a

strictly confidential basis that

the Ancrican Anbassador had

been in contact with certain Mexican citicials concerning

possible anticommuirt activities.

The Ambassador had concultod

with the local CIA chief and had asked for a list of Anericans

who could be considered as beins deportable. The CIA officor

reportedly furnished a

list of approximately 40 names.

(mellio-

randum Roach to Belmont,

Septenber 17,

1058,

"legal Altoche's

Office, Mexico City, Relationship with Embassy and CIA)

4)

38.

He expressed our displensure to CIR 11

1958

because of that

September,

tho

Arency:

United

States of

tion with an exchange

program.

The Romanianzindicated to an

Metron Erend part ho we interer in sueds in the toul

States,- but was

not ready for actual defection because of

SEGRET.

- 13 -

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

(U)

to notify the Barenu

lotter dated September 16,

1959, was

also: cont.10.

and he was told that the Burcau wis:

disappointed

in.hin because he

nad failed to make any objection

to the article and had not aleited us concerning the impending

attack against the Bureau.

(emorandun Frohbose to Belmont,

August

27, 1059,

"Allen Dulles:

America's Clobal Sherlock,

Nogazine;

Soptember,

1959''; and Memorandum Prohbose to

Eelmont, September 4, 1959,

"Allen Dulles")

45

ACTIVITIES OF CONTACTS DIVISION OF CIA = 1959

ve received information in september, 1953,

the Contacts

Division of CIA had hold interviews

WIth AGrican

the businessen and visiting Bovictaller reportedly was inter-

..(J)

(U)

the Bureau.

our interest in the Soviet. By loiters

doted September 29,

1959, No voiced our

obection to the manner

in which CIA had

andied this.

(Re

Burenu

file

(U)

40.

APPEAR/NCE

OF

COLONEL FRANTISER TISLER BEFORE THE

NOOSE COULTEDE ON TIMERICAN ACTIVIRTES (MCUA) ~ 1959

on november G,

1959,

information was received

indicating that HOUA was

interested in obtaining Colonel Frantisex

Tisier',

a Czech defector, to testify before the Committee.

HICUA

advisod us that it had contacted

the State Department who, in

turn, had conferred with Cil.

Allen Dulles allegedly inforned

HUA that Tisler was agrocable to appenring before the Commitlee

and that he would be made available pursuant to certain security

instructions.

The Director asked whether or not CIA had authority .

to make a defector available to a congressional committee without

first chocking with other interested agencies.

The birector was

informed

that CIA did

nọt have such authority becnuse a Ncional

Security Council directive made it

very clear that this could not

be done without processing the matter through the Inter Agency

Defoctor Committee.

In this particular case the aforementioned

Committce had not called a meeting, but the chairman, a CIA

official, had made certain phone calls.

WaS

contacted by phone on Hovember 6, 1959, but at that time we

had not formulated a position.

Allen Dulles alicgedly contacted

the chairman of the Comnittee and was told that the Comnitiec

had no cojection do mating Tislor availablo.

SECRET

-17 -

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SEENEI

On Novenber 13, 1050, CiA repronentatives were

inforned that.wo. wore opposed

to making the defector availabig

to lCUA.. on that same date we were told that CIA was informind

Houst was reversing its position and that

upon icconsideration

it did not feel that Tisler could be

made available.-

By memorandan arted November 11, 1959, the dcvelop-

monis in this miter were reviewed and

it was recommended that

at the next Intor-agency Defacior. Committee nocting we strongl:

protest CIA's

dereliction in the handling of the HUA request.

(Bureau file 106-50008)

47. CRITICISM OF DIRECTOR

On Aplit 11, 1900

of Reicco

company, Carache, venezuela

Antormed the Bureau that he recently

Nowheld

a conversation with

an

Enbassy in Caracas.

VISHAN

vasta CiA cnployec

ficial of the U.s.

knee took exception

to complimentary statemants made by

concerning the Dircctor

and the fBi.

sintcd that the Dircetor should have retired

five yeat's

ago foi

thc

good. of

all concerned.

A protest was made

to Allen Dulleg

Ape:1 20, 1060.

(iomorandum Prohbose to Belmont,

April 2a, 1000,

!">

18.

CIA OFFICIAL ALLEGEDLY ADVOCATING

12220

CHINA - 19C0

Position

In February, 1960,

Cranes

for the Richardson Foundntion, volunteered intomation

concerning

statchonts

allegedly made by bravia

top

CiA official.

ailogedly advocated rccognition oi Rod

China.

'This:

matter was called to the attention of Allen

Dulles and on April 20, 1960, Dulles informed

the Liaison Anot

that he had conducted an inquiry, had revieved a tape recording

0f

tall=,

and was

salisfied thre t

had not made thu

=.

statement attributed lo him.

The above is being cited in the event we desir l

dispute the

position

taken by Dolies. If the evidence clearl

established

that saches had

made such

a statement, we could"

the information to support a position that

we would have

fricit

warranted in being most circumspect with CIA.

(Memorandum

Ironbose to Beinont, April 21, 1900,

19.

ALLEGED INSTALLATION OF MICROPHONES ON U.S.

PROMISUS ARRORD BY CIA

A State Department representative informed tir mutt

that a microphone had been tound

the u.s. Imbassy,

1167:

that it had boen planted

by CIA; and that Allen Dulles altonly

SECRET - 18 -

NH 50953 DocId:32169180 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

had maintained that or cia mas to operate effectively, it ind

to now what was gone on: 10. 05. escoblishnents, The implication

WalS

leït that Cia vas coyering activities of other U.s. agencios

through

technient inetallatiörs."

Inquiries developed intora-

tion indicating

ClA had installed

a microphone in the babassy

in 1952 at the. regucst o1

c. Suato Dupartmout official.

The Office

•of-socurity in State Dopastment wre contarted in an effort: to

this down in a nore seccific vonner.

We were told by State

that their records did not contain any

information "concorning

the microphone.

Subsequently,

pletter was transmitted. to aly. Legal

Attaches instruciing

then to be on the

alert for technical

installations

which my affect Bureau opertions.

(Menorandum

L'Allion to Delmont, May 2, 1000,

"Installation of Microphones

on U.a, Premices Abrond by CIA")

50.

raveceived informati

adicating that the subjeet

forners Cuban hinteligence

agent

subject or a Bureau

investigation,

had plamed to detect

seated ure subject

Now fork city andes

to orient lin so that

nazanon propagande effect would be corivod

hrough newpoper paolich

• Ve vere told that the CIA Lepre

mad bach instructed by his hordonarter:

to coll the subject thai

Government.

be prosecuted by the l.s.

complained to CJA

Silessing

that the Agency

had no power or authority to promise the subject immunity.

Menorendum WAllick to belmont, September 30, 1060,

(и)

51.

MiGg

CIA

position as a socretar

117

employce, obtazned u

the Oifice

DOLegaT10n

to the United Antions.

Prior to receiving this job,

TA checked

- (U)

with the Bureau.

The

Isoison Agent subsoquently learned that

had informed the

that she was leaving her job

The

Sho

• inquired if she could recommend somebody else.

save them the name of another CId employee, Miss

The Liaison Agent informed CIA that the Agency was

out of line by not tirst encoting with the Bureau delore recon-

that the Bureau wis intererted

in developing intelligenee intormation which night be useful.

to the U.S. Goveranont; and tlat,

in

this instance, CId was

obstructing operatione by not appropriately coordinating with

the Bureau.

SECRET

- 19-

HW 50953

DoC1d: 32169180 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SECRÉT

:52

CIA USD OF DURCAU INFORMATION IN 2

A U-S. INDELLISIENCE BOARD DOCUMENE

.?..

.On Morch, 30, 1001, the Linason Anent contacted.

Allen Dullos concering. Cid's railuce to obtain Bureau clearance.

for use of ou intormation in a V.s. Intelligence Board document.

No. Known.unnage bad been dose, but

the agent scressoc the. seast-

tivity oc

the Buroud information..

Dultes requested one of his

subordinates to establich a procedure

to prevent a recurrence

oi such errors. Gemorandum D'ailier to Belmont, Mich 30, 1962,

(U)

53.

"SPY IN CHE U.S.": ROOK AUE RED BY PATEL MONAT

in julys

1961, our Chicago Office received

galley

proots of the book

"Spy in the U.5.,

"written by Pawel Monat.

A review of these proofs disclosed soverni references wlich

portrayed our counterespionage capabilities in an unfavorable

light.

Since CIA vas responsible for Monat and for any writing

he might perform, the natter was discussed with Cia.

1t

turned out that CIA had not boen following the preparation ot

the book.

We vere told that stops nould be talen to protect

Purenn interest: The publishors had indicatod tô CiA that they

rould cooperate on changes.

Although some changes were made,

the book still came ont

wits sone

information which was not

entirely favorable to

the Bureau. (Pavel Monat, Bureau

file

105- 40510,

54. CONFLICT, WITH LEGAL ATTACHE

NEXICO CITY

J961

{4)

1 Cetober 6, 1961, our Legal Attache, lexico City3

received infornation indicating that the frech Enbass in chat

city

Intelligence.

The Legal Attacho

was told by theklocal CIl osticey(du)

that the agency was not involved.

On October 12, 161, the

sane CIA offire changed las position and admitcod that ClA hac

been involved to a certain extent. The Liaison Agent objected -

to those tactics.

It was important to hin to know the facts

SO

he could be guided

necorurnydy.

(NenorandundL'Allic: to

Sullivan,

October 18

1961, LCrechoslovalian DibTomatio

Activities-

Mexico'

55. CIA TECINICAL SUR LILLANCE ACTIVITY IN THE UNITED STAGES - 1021

When he defected in December, 1501,

furnished

in metion

concorning alleged penetiation of

Amoxican

intelligonce. Inquiries and review conducted by CIA within

t.ho

Agency succostod that a Cin intelligence officer,

WaS 2

logical

suspoct.

Vo conferrod with CIA and on Tebruary&,

1962, ve advised the Agency that ve would take over the invosti

gation.

24|

SECRET.

- 20 -

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 34

---

## Page 35

(U)

(0)

(U)

SECRET

instructions veir sont to the fiold and we then learned in

Now. York City that ClA

allegecay planned ta make, a leeruionent

approach.

The matter

was

taken up with CIA headquarters and

a protest uns made becauso of the wide discrepancy in the

roports we

received

on: CiA

intentions.

Gogorandun Brennan

Sullivan, April, 18, 1066g

t0

6'7.

PASSING OL SURDAU

DOCULINES TO

SENATOR ROSANT C

DYRD BY CIA SAPIOZOG - 1006

in Septenber,

1.966,

we developed information indicating

that copies

of. FBI docuouts had been passed to Senator Byrd by

•CIA.

The mattor was discused with the Director of CiA and the

Agoney subsoquently conducied an investication and establiched

that one of its enployees.

a name chock renucet to the lamean concerndog ond

had submitrod

subject of the motorint in question,

that

east had a responsibility of bandling aene chech requests fo:

CiA and, in this connection, was in contact with our Name Chock

He admitted that be institutod a nume chock on an

"off

the cuff basis" for anotor Cia employee named

It 10 my perotiontion that one en bott: CIA employees

were subscquently

Sivod

asisod

to resign.

(Memorandom

Brennan

Sullivan.

Doptember

21,

1906,

"Leak of FSI

Documents

Concerning

to Genator Robert C. Byrd")

68.

ALLEGED COUPOLISE OF BUNPAL DOUBLE AGENT (E)UI

In Warch, 106%, we protested to CIA

in

counecti

With a matter relatin

to our mutual

interest

connected with

corpor

& chants

y donkin

Jersey

Ve were utilizing

è ChOniSt

ardouble arent

211

an operation

directed against the Sovietsi

PCIA

nad cstoblished

a relation

ship with the came porson

tot

tho

purpose of roguiring

intelligence relating to the field of ma

OuX Newarks &

Chemis

Tirm

7077701161

discussing

lemorandmm

the matter with the president of the

Sullivan to Deloach, March 15,

1967,

хак

69.

In July, 1967, we protested to CIA in a case where

the Agency

allegedly had failed to roport to us concerning a

conmunication which & Cuban exile, residing in the United States:

had receired fron the Cuban Intelligence Scivice.

The particular

communication had instructod

the exile to initiate preparations

SECRET

- 25

NH 50953 DocId: 32169180 Page 35

---

