# 124-90158-10064

## Page 1

124-90158-10064

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10064

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-584-5444

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/15/1976

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32340407

Page 1

---

## Page 2

no the copy

emptied

12034718

fice

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

15 NOV 1976

CMEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

:

Director

'Federal Bureau of Investigation

Intelligence Division

(JFK)

List of Cuban Exile Activists Obtained

by the (Panamanian National Guards)

- Cris

Citinities.

Information on the U.S. persons whose names appear on

the attached document was obtained incidental to collection

of information on terrorist activities.

1.

The following information may not be released to

toreign nationals, contractors, or contractor/ consultants.

The extraction and dissemination of the information i‹

controlled by the originator.

It is requested that no

action be taken regarding it without prior approval of

this office.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSISCATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION BRACKETS

4-15-48

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEER

2-9-98

кр

Reference is made to CIOL-0367-76

dated 2 November

Involved in Terrorism."

The source of that information, who

is 'a sensitive usually reliable reporter, has

subsequently

provided the attached list

of Cuban exile activists which

academon the contacts ended by the Barons and oational

The arrows and other

markings on the document were apparently added by the National

Guard G-2 office.

No additional dissemination of the above information

is being

made.

FOR

THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

0-7 to

REC-86

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINER

10971784

HEREIAL IS LINGL

SSIFIED

ATE SO

pa mac/s

DE-39

ST. 114

George

T. Kalaris

CIOL-03.86=76 m

(JEN)

5

NOV 24 1976

ATTACHMENT:

1,

as above

TORe copies nade

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

Ros review at reTa

AND METHODS INVOLVED

cokeg.of

3 5 DEC 141976/2/22/2>

CLASSIFIED AT

064737

EXEMPT FROM GENIRSE DECLASSIFICATICA

SCHESULE OF E. 0. 11692. XEM!# CATEGORY:

§ 56611.

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIHSD ON

IMPDET

(unless impossible, insert dale or everti

1776-1976

wW 5095$

DooId: 32340407 Page

SECRET

---

