# 124-90135-10274

## Page 1

124-90135-10274)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10274

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-NR

- Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: SA

TITLE :

DATE: 03/15/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HW 50953

DocId: 32336879

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTEDRITY DERIVED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-24-2023

BY: 3043/98142

AU BUT SI

(U)

ENTORMATION CONTAGNED

HERE UT

CLASSIIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

9115798 9mm

3/35/61

ICLESIDEN

circel

NO PRELAST IN PART

Fit. 25X

TOTA REME

Messiner

/gel

Tor

San

Antonto

adassity on: OADR 11/291

New

York

Дол

Prancieco

CLASSITED BY S48S10C

DECLASSIFY.ON. 25X

Pron:

Dirsctory.

FBI (105-04985)

(3F14) 12/18758

ake

CLASSIFIED BY 922 AND/DR bATE

EXEMPI FROM GDS CATEGORX

Lindaey Ling Foh

IS w. 08

pyll

4/15/98

LTR, ATD.

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

Deparinent of Alr Foroe by lottor doboú 3/7/61 requeston

Cutterrer Lenoyos

San Anéonio file 105-2118,

Man 1420

205-21029

5x/32€ 105-82206

be interuleuad re captioned subject.

denoyo 1o a dejected Coatro. orriolal who do boing intem

vieuca by Con Antonto Office.

le wad reportedly a doncuntad and while

cicining to bo involved in anti-losoro aotlostice with Million Korgan,

Costro leader and soldier of fortune recently executed by Castro

governments

Lenoye actually

plot to overthroin casdro.

Alp ores aduled information woe

colved from can that

according

toLan offiotal Portugueag

20y4,09

renoyo now consoosed eho

captioned cubject

in late August, 2960,

in santo dories

Cho Maprese

Air Force contirued cubject currently residos in Lodrid mers he

maneges & rectaurom arrogenty omes by anoches unidentired chinese

uso reportedly has suppited clothing to 0 5, persories

ad Lajea Base

in bhe Anords:

Subject te one of soveral Chinese suspected of vaing

business venturas os cover for capionage of other illegal acolaties,

Al? Toroe advised further thee omn furniahed Information thos one

Weine wioners

a businsas assoolate

of the subjecte

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATION AND/OR

1116--

2 - 20куо

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

SOr RECORDID

• Madrid 110290/1

1 * Faris

0205-2258)

EYEOPT FOR BRACLESDUPLCATS

3 • Liant

5-11-98

I morales talents to dance through resent 54

VER gO 50NAR22 1961 F63,

SEC

JFK)

• 305-82208 (Eloy Gutierren Menoyo)

NOTE FACE FOUR

HH 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-24-2023

BY: 3043/98142

ласоа

zuch?

Toreign 2,3

HN 50953

AN INTORMATION CONTACLAD

HERETI

GLACE TIED

EXCENT WISHE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

3/15/62

1115748gm.

I KLEASE IN FULL

alrtel

Li MELEASE IN PARO

С ГОТА ПЕНА

Classinen-

ti/ge

1'08

2

San

• Antonio

stassily on: OADR 1/29/53

New York

CLASSIFTED BY 548500KCL

San Francieco

DECLASSIEY ON. 25X

Direetor, #DI (205-94985)

(JF1L) 12/18198

LIVE Bind-sey,

alca

CLASSIFIED BY 6922

Lindaey

Ling Ych

EXEMPT FROM GOS CATEGORY

I8 - 01

PARAL

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFIAUTE

DECLASSIPIED

Deportnent

of Air Force by letter

dated 3/?/o1 requested

Gusserres enoyo, ban Anconso file 40.2hl0s Mien 142e

205-22023

Butle 205-02296, be Interuleued ve captloned subjeot.

Menoye 1g

defected Castro offiolal who is being inter.

u lewed

by san Antonte Offlee,

le was reportedly a comuntet and chile

osciming to be involved in ansi cagero ecolnisses mich mattan corgans

Costro Leader and soluter of fortune recently enccuted by casure

governments

plot to overthrow Castro.

Maron astrally betrayed & Dominican Republie antialustro

(U)

according

tolan offsotal terengueae

Lan of elate agues one eye a contacted tre

coptioned subject in late August, 2960,

in santa Maria, the 120r00+

Air force continued cubject currently resideo in Laurie were he

manages e remauront artegedly oned by another unidentified Mineae

who reportedly has supplied clothing to 0. S. personnel at tajes Base

in the Azored.

Subject le one of several Chinese suspected of vaing

bustness ventures de cover for esplonage or other illegal cotloitles.

Air Force aluised further thes eld furniahed inforsation that on

The odor

Beins Wiener,

& bustnets escociate of the mubjeet,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIAICATION AND/OR,

2 = Tokyo

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

OT RECORDED

2 • Ladrid

(105-525)

= Pardo (205-1254)

IN THIS DOCUMENT

MAR,17 1961

2 - Ment

ExCopT FOR BRACKESDUPLICATE YELLOWA

& = Foreign Liaison

Kennap

not froute through sor vest silbe

50MAR 22 1961163

SECRETE

- 205-82298 (Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo)

NOTE FAGE POUR

DocId: 32336879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Airtel to SAC, San Antonio

LING Lind sey, aka

(105-04985)

ET

arrested in the Agores December, 1958, on suspicion of espionage.

As of september, 1960, Wiener, according to CIA, was reported to be

in Bermuda, where subject eventually intends to

go to explore

PARA I

possibility of establishing.a.restourant

DECLASSAFIED

Air Force hos requested Menoyo be' questioned concerning

nature and extent of his association with subject and other Chinese

fop any informatton untch may disclose espionage and/or other illegal

actiototes affecting Aly Force interests.

It was further requested

Menoyo e possible assoctation with Mener also be exploredo (2)n)

By letter dated 1/11/62, Legat, Faris, Furnished the

following information, clossified

"Secret,

"concerning the subject

which uao received from

the French Foreion Intelligence and Counter-

espionage Service:

Subject was born 3/12/19 at Chehlong, Ching.

wife is Sushuet

Live no arrived in Burope by air fron

New York on 12/13/60 and proceeded to Madrid, Spain.

New York address,

as of October, 1960, was in care of Michel

Bernier, 514 West 110th Streets

New York Citye

Subject has established & olothing business in

where he wonks on Americon bases.

He is a repres

sentative of long Chong and Company, Custom Tallors,

Floor, otton Bulldinge

Lottingen Street, Hong Kong. The

subject 18 in close business relations with Samuel On Ming-chun

and both are members of a financial organization established

by the authorittes of People's Bank at Shanghal for the purpose

of obtaining capital of Chinese llving doroad and channeling

these funds back into chinde

The subject is known to have been in contact wich

Heine Teodor Wiener uno reportedly was arrested on a

seoret bose in the A20708.

The Hong Kong firm Long Chong one Company,

réported to have estoblished a bant establishment in

San Froneisco during the early part of 1960 knoun as:

Iangchong and Company, Bank of canton. 555 Montgomery streety

U)

Although there is no apparent connection.

it is interesting

to note that the nome Michael Bernier, 514 West 1l0th Strect, New York

City»

appears in the case of Normon A, Solyed (Bufile 65-66330).

saiyed clained that while working for Soutet intelligence in the

HH 50953 DocId:32336879 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Airtel to S40, Son Antonio

Res

LING Lind-sey, ahe

(205-94985)

inited states, he was used as a spotter and in this capacity spotted

Michael Bernier, 514 Weat 110th Street, New York City

mis informo-

tion was furnished by CIA which has conducted extensive and penetrating

interview of Saiged abroade

The information furnished by satyed has

been diacounted because he not only is on admitted fraudulent check

passery

but

is also

a self-admitted fobricator of intelligence infor

not 807s

By letter dated 2/23/61, Legaty Madrids furnished the

following information recelved from OSt, clossifted "Secrets.

bering the notation "special hendling required- not relencable to

PARAS. 12,6

DECLASSIFIED

Close monitorings of activities of certain minese

merchants in spain disclose they are sending Aerican dollors

to Red China.

The Chinese merchont in Madrid, Lindsey Lings

gAY

has admitted

this and it is known that San On of Boragoza nos

beor sending Anericon dollars to Conunist Chine

Legat, Peris, letter 2/27/61 furnished Jollowing infornation

received fron French Noreign Intelligence and Counterespionage Service,

classified "Secret"a

deins

Theodor tener, & confederate of the aubject,

Is apprently o German and reportadly wis

arrested on a

secret hose in the Azores, December, 1958.

DING, sno lejt New York and arrived

in Burope on

12/13/60, traveled via "Iberia Air Lines. "3)

San Antonio is instructed to prompoly inseruzew henoye ve

delay in letterhead menorandun.

contioned sunjeet as requested by dare and suenit resultan thous

San Francisco

should promptly subnit any information

it has

obtained

re langohong and Companys

Bank of Cantons 555 Montgomery Street

New Tork should promptly submit results of ite

inuestigation

regording wichoe.

Bernier, oka, Michel Bernier, 514 West 110th Street,

New Tork City. (Ku)

tonyo, prompti

suomit results of inquirica re Ling

chong and Company, long Kong

All offices should subnit results of investigation in letter

head menorandun.

Furnish Bureau with nine copies,

SECRET

=30

HW 50953

DocId: 32336879 Page 5

---

