# 124-10285-10054

## Page 1

124-10285-10054

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD, SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10054

HQ

CR 113-7-210-4039

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

CIA

CIA

DATE: 07/05/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CC, ARMY OFFICERS, CUBAN EXILE, POLIT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32304042 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ALLABD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

INFORBATION CONTAINER

DATES/13/29

BY SUGE SLO

T'his material contains leformation aif

CENTRẠL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

-che Necome Daterso el the Dallod States Wichta the meanies

Diplouage Laws, Title

in is probibited by law.

NO. FO

+-R-E-T

DISSEM/CONTROLLED

DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba

•SUBJECT,

] ,

2

Military + NAVAl MAtterS OR NO.

Activities

Officers: Who

aye.

Membens

MANSATE DISTR.

OT°

the

2Sth of July

Movement

NO. PAGES

legances

of Loading Army

ficers

REFERANCES

CS DB-312/01872-66

5 July

1966

2

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

See below

DATE ACQ.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

Late April and mid-June 1956

• CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

14866131978

ASSANITIZED

FIELD REPORT NO.

iNFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS.

ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

See belown"

France, Paris (21 June 1956)

Source, Para.

Aus

official french service:] 6)

B

Tormid-June

7965

oup of öfficers was said to

be

looking for

"way

out"

(French:

ul's sortie!) for Castro., Although informed

affair

of this.projectt.this.group

Castro is taking no action, while: following the

closely.

imberser

the. 26th of July 'Movement,

"Is' directed by Pedra

Cuban Con

2E3.

Humber

(PCC) Central Committee menber

Mana, Director detestationali

- Selvice

United States (11 June 1966)

Сива

Source, Pora. 32:

promined Cuban extie. With weil detined poli-,

tical ambitions;

source is a fairly reliable reporter:

In

addi-

tion to maihtaining, an unusually large number of direct and

in-

direct contacts among Cuban exiles and influential Latin American

nationals,,

he has some contacts in Cuba::

Source said that he obt

•nt,

tained this information from a governmental employee on

the island.

2

In late April: 1968

•unrest

thin

e. FAR: was unquest

nable, and

military

rieaders.

Bosque,

Sergio de

1211e

Jimenez,

and Pedr

iret,

ho, have

gained the respect

and adnira-

tion t the. troops

gave

the appearance

of supporting the régime

nore out of loyalty:

than

of conviction.

2.

.. These men

are devoted

to their military auties,.

and:they follow the leader. or the cause

for which/they

fought against. Batista

Cor

minist ideology.

Psychiatric (formerly

legated to antonimportant post: 3,.

and Victor

isolated

is. preoccunied

with his

job:in the Havana

Hospitalgrand Bordon has been re-

- if

3

JOYFOREICN

STATE

LDIA

CINCSO.$

Note: Fietú distribution indicated: hy.)

ARNY

-E-T

S-SEM CONTROLLED DISSEN

NSA

OSA? DOS&T

1330

SEP 2 4 1073

•XEROXED ORIGINAL-RETAIN

113-7-21

MHT

60953

DocId

32304042

Page 2

---

## Page 3

285:10054

4/039

0X-103

REC6113-7-210

S-E-OCA-D-T

NO FOPRIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEL 14IC

C3D3-312401320-56

Headquarters Co

¡ents

Nốt cs-311/02789-66: Erom an officiat Spantsh

served dentities other Army majors

who are said to be;

continuing erforts to coganizera gbedlion; Mixet and:

Castello vere

not mencioned in

the Spanish. Service

-agport.

Castellois reportedly ren intimate friend of Faur

settoron

Madiovilza//Ministewbrencausportatian.3rg.10am

13th. of March Revolutionary Directozale, an orgonization

which Casterto velonged?

cuba

2.

Unlike Miret and det vaute,

Alneida' is not a Pec central

Committee member; del Valle is a member of the Polidierl

Bureau and also of the Revolutionary Arned Forces and Scate

Security Committee of the Central Committee of the poc.

3.

TDUS-3)4/02675-66 contains Bordon's conments ebout unrest.

* in the FAR;

which,

in histopinion, is'greater every day but

does not pose a curzent threat to the Castro régime bécause

mutual distrust' between.officers, noncommissioned. officers,

and enlisted men: makeshany united

action

"impossible:

...Bordon

is one off numerous Army

officers whose, ariest has beer re-

ported by refugee.

sources: in the purge

which followed 'the

Cubelaitrial.

-CS-311/05970-66 and reports referenced therein

contain speculation on'

the reasons behind the purge,

includ-

ing the possibility that the purge is directed

at merbers

of the 10th of March

Revolutionary Directorate.

rapan studio o

E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM/CONTROLLER NOSEM

NH 50953

DocId:32304042 Page 3

---

