# 124-10326-10099

## Page 1

124-10326-10099

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/9/2015

=

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10326-10099

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-99724-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KEAY

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/09/1954

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NY 50953

DooId: 32313171

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 6A

Office Merr

MUM • UNITED

DECLASSIZICATION AUTHORITY ERDU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATICN CUIDE

DATE 06-13-2023

BY: E54453142

EBI INEDILATION ONLI

GOVERNMENT

TO

MR.

A .

PELMONT

DATE:

FROM

V.

. A

10/9,00

March 9, 1954

• SPYEL

WIKFA

SUBJBCT:

JAMES ANGLETON

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Declassiy

$ A. 7788-1826

ALL INTARHATYON CUSTOM

MBREIN 15

I ASSUMI

Tolson

Ladd.

Ai? Belmone

Nichols

6. Clegs

Glavin

Harbo

Rosea

Tracy

Mohr

Trocter -

Winterrowd..

Tele. Room-

Holloman

Miss Gandy

EXCEPT WHEE SHOWE

As you know, the captioned individual has been providing

the Bureau with considerable information,

much of it being of a

very sensitive nature.

It has been noted

in transmitting

communications to Angleton some memorando have

been sent

Other memoranda dealing with

OtTer earn later on James Angleton in came tea 011.11

(U)

been directed to James Angleton, in care of lE..

*. Ha1J(510)

In order that the Bureau would have a uniform procedure

n transmitting mail to Angleton,

the Liaison Agent discussed

the matter with Angleton on March 5, 1954.

Angleton requested

that in the future mail being directed to him be transmitted to

"Attention: James Angleton." Angleton stated

that the above request was being made with the approval of Allen

Dulles, the Director of CIA.

He further indicated that he desired

then a nethod of desianation in comes evi tre garre to barne

dealing with

concerning

matters, Angleton advised that such

material is being retained under his personal supervision and

control.

Angleton also asked when the Bureau found it necessary

to disseminate information to him and other agencies, that his

identity not be revealed to the other agencies. XHe explained that

he is involved, in several sensitive proiects. such as!

and ii his identity were known to the other agencies,

'the Security Of CIA operations could be prejudiced 7050

ACTION:

Attached hereto for your approval is

• Memorandum to

• all section Chiefs.

SJP:1w'

Attachment

•1 - Mr. Wannall

- Reading Room

2490

60 NAN 19 1954

LEE : 8-7-98

RECORDED - 36

Ex. - 107

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId: 32313171 Page 2

---

