# 124-10287-10038

## Page 1

124-10287-10038

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

10/7/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-86025-1ST NR 39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/13/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LCA, GODOY, ERNESTO ARAGON Y, DISBAND, CRC, INTV,

EMP, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32304908

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

5010-106

HAT BrEA 2009882898

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

_NMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

Declas

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

ATE:

SEQ

NEW YORK (105-35253)

SE

ANTI - FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ES - CUBA

→ INTERIAL

Eventhen pY 1259

The 48118

lowing normation as not hang tibmitted

"Ir. Tolson!

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr..

Mr.

Ir. Callahan

MIr. Conrad.

9/13/63

"TrADeLoach

Evans

1Ir. Gale..

Mr.

Rosen

Sullival®

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mias Romes.

Miss Gandy

of this Information

could be detrimental to the best

Interests of the United States.

The enclosed Information

RELINOSEd

"New York CIty, former member of

the Cuban Revolutionary Cound

**CRC and close associate of Dr. LOSE MIRO CARDONA OI the

CIA HAS

DECULRCTICIS INCHAGG

1s being submitted for the guidance of the Bureau, Miami

Land WFO relative to

the above captioned subject matter.

Dr. ERNESTO ARAGON Y GODOY,

233 East 69th Street,

EXCRC, on 7/30/63 advised that he had difficulty in obtaining

employment since the disbanding of the CRC in April, 1963,

Z after MIRO CARDONA resigned as President of the CRe.

ARAGON stated that in submitting to an interview with

two nationally known insurance companies, he had been

informed by them in letters stating their reluctance to

hire him because he was too closely identified with the

KENNEDY Administration and these companies felt that this

relationship would be

companies

ALL

i harmful tonhaseemployment with the

MEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

ARAGON stated that as a rest

UNCLEN

a result of failure to obtain:

gainful employment and as a result of the aforementioned letters

which he received, he requested and received an interview with

Attorney General ROBERT E. KENNEDY.

ARAGON stated that the

AFF

AND FIELD

ADVISED BY RO

(S

SLIP

i

Attorney General informed him that

he would do everything

possible in ordersto

assist; ARAGON

of employment. &(U)

904 140-1636-236

Incobtaining some type

Classifted by

BE:

Diasty on: GADY 4/0/34/05-86025-

2- Bureau (109-584

(RM)

NOT REGORNED

I- Miami (105-1742

1-, washington

Field

105-29995 (INFO. (RM)

HE SEN BONG

New YOrK 105-35253•00

*14 SEP 171963

FJO: chs plaw. aci

134-10700 (aragon) (4)

Classinied by S

92-4524 (4R)

(6)

105

56025

105-85440 Antenne)

105160422 Ti

97068133

MARI

Declassify on:

1050108511

FORDC

41037120880}

125800001.D1

SECRET

NA

NH 50953

DocId:32304908

Page 2

FK

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

NY 105-35253

4140

XIAN

ARAGON also advised

"on

130/63 that he had taken

examination in Washington, D.C. during the latter part

of July, 1963, at the United

States Department of State in

order to obtain a job from this department as an

interpreter and translator.

ARAGON advised that he had

just received word that he had passed the examination and

the the State Department contemplated utilizing his services

within the next few weeks.

ARAGON also advised that this

job as an interpreter and

translator for the United States

Department of State would entail his travelling with visitors

from Latin America to various states and to various

universities throughout the United States.

ARAGON advised tha

he would receive a fixed daily amount plus $20.00 a day

expenses for each day he worked for the State Department in

the capacity of a translator and interpreter. & (4)

ARAGON further stated on 7/30/63 that due to his

past close association with the Bureau and his confidence and

trust in the Bureau although he had been instructed not

to disclose his association, nevertheless,

he wanted the

Bureau to know thatias of 8/1/63 he would be placed on the

payroll of the central Intelligence Agency (CIA), at the sum

of $300.00 per month plus expenses.

ARAGON advised that he

had been asked to perform certain assignments for CIA and

had been told that he may, at times, have to travel for the

agency to meet and interview certain people for them.

ARAGON requested that his connection with CIA be held in

the strictest of confidence andunder no circumstance should

the fact that he disclosed this connection be mentioned to

CIA

ARAGON on 9/4/63, was contacted at which time he

stated that he already had had one assignment from the

State Department to travel with a couple of students from

Bolivia who were visiting In Washington, D.C. He also

stated that he expected another assignment from them within aweek

or two. du)

ARAGON also advised on 9/4/63, that he has made two

¡trips to Toronto, Canada, for CIA in order to contact PATRICIO

ESTEVE of the consolidado del Canada, witch 15 a group of RAD C)

: (U

-2-

CONF

AMAL

HH 50953 DooId: 32304908 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-35253

SECRET

CCIDSTAR

Canadian insurance companies in Cuba whom ESTEVEZ represents. I

ARAGON stated that he had contacted ESTEVEZ since he knew eX

him from Havana and through ESTEVEl worked out an arrangement e

whereby the CIA would be in regular contact with his son,

PATRICIO ESTEVEZ JR.,] who also works for the same l8)

insurance firms]but who is now living in Toronto, Canada. ¿

ARAGON advised from his various meetings with

representatives of the United States Department of scate,

CIA and the Department of Defense and from contacts among

cuban exile groups, that he is of the opinion that the

Anti-CASTRO movement

at the present time is back in

the same situation it was in prior to the invasion of

Cuba in April, 1961.

ARAGON advised, that by this

statement,

he meant that once again the CIA is

acting independently of her Governmental Agencies and

that their activities at the present time are greatly

increased and they report to no one and only advise:

responsible individuals after a certain mission has been

carried out. ARAGON stated once again the United States

State Department is confined to matters of a political

and economic nature relative to Cuba while the Department

of Defense

in Cuba.

closely watching any military activity & (4)

&(u)

ARAGON

advised that from his own knowledge he is

absolutely positive that the following organizations are

being completely supported by the CIA: AR (SU)

1. Unidad Revolucionaria - This organizations

is headed by JOSE F. RODRIGUEZ ESPADA and MARIO

SEIGLE.

ARAGON stated that this organization,

getting out a newspaper, booklets and various forms

ARAGON

also advised that they have put out a booklet

listing the arrivals and departures of all foreign

ships to and from Cuba.

ARAGON stated that the

work done by the organization is very impressive

and undoubtedly it has cost a large sum of money

which obviously comes from CIA.

- SECRET

(и)

NH 50953 DocId: 32304908 Page 1

---

