# 124-10020-10285

## Page 1

(124-10020-10285)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

JFK Assassination System

T0/15/20

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10020-10285

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-7023

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, BA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/02/1971

3

JFK. SUSPECT, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA:

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 50959

DocId: 3212244B

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2t

• FD-36 (Rev. 1-22-641

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Vio

TO:

FROM

FBI.

Date:

8/2/71

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DTRECTOR, FBI

(62-109060)

SAC, BALTIMORE (39-30)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FIIZGERALD KENNEDY

Texas, November 22, 1963-

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of an

IHM, captioned and

dated as

above, which is self-explanatory.

Enclosed for Dallas is one copy of instant IHM.

No further action is being taken by Baltimore,

UACB.

5-227

10

£0-39

defe

Bureau

(enclosures 4) ENCLOSURE

1= Dallas

(Enclosure 1)

1- Baltimore

(4)

62109060-7823

18 AUG

3 1971

asl

8197F080

Special Agent in Charge

Approved-

NH 50953

1oo1d:32122446

Page 2

_ M

Per

Sent

---

## Page 3

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROL:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-15-2023

BY: 3643/98142

UNC

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Baltimore, Maryland

August 2, 1971

STICE

SECRET

Mr. Tolson —

Mr. Felt -

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Brennan, C.D.-

Me. Callahan

Mr. Casper -

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Dalbey

Mr. Gale

Mr. Ponder -

Mr. Rosen -

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Walters -

Mr. Soyars -

Tele. Room -

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy -

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

89-30

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.RE:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

FIIZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. AS BRACKETEL

November 22, 1963

Marion Joan Robinson, 1814

Delaware,

appeared at the

(U)

of Investigation (FBI), and provided the following

Information.

FORMER

Agency

From october, Do ve A gust 1903 i sence

In 1961, she was assigned to the Central Intelli

gence Agency In Paris, France.

Miss Robinson stated that she had previously

(U)

supplled some of the following infomation to the Central

Intelligence Agency in a letter to the Director of the Central

Intelligence Agency In March, 1971. She stated that she has

to date only received a short letter from the Central

Intelligence

Agency, and that het lather had received a

telephone call from

a Mr. BrowD concerning her letter.

She related that she belleves that the details of the

lorrowins to de correct, and that she had vo-untary

contacted

• psychiatrist and had psychological testing

perfored, which she stated had resulted in the psychiatrist

advising

her that she is noral. She continued and advised

that she

Is disgruntled with the way that the Central

Intelligence Agency has handled the information which

she

provided, and Insinuated that she intended to contact

the

newspapers in the near future with her information.

373194

Classifie

Declassi

ALL JOR CISTRON

I CONTAINUD

WHERE SHOUNTI

3/18/9

CLASS ED SY 566

DECLASSIFY O

•THIS DOCUMENI

CONTAINS NEITHER RECOMMINDATI.**

NOR CONC USIONS OF FUG $B

HE IS THE PROPERTY

SECRET

OF INE FBIANO I3 10A053

TO YOUR AGENCY;

AND ITS GONTENTE

ARE MOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED

QUISIDE VOUR AGENCY.*

62

ENCLOSURE 60-7023

(U)

HH 50953 DocId: 3212244B Page 3

---

## Page 4

BA 89-30

FRANCE

(V)

(U)

(U)

SECRET

RE :

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JON

FITZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

November 22, 1963

Mias Robinson stated that the following Intormation

began coning back to her earlier this year, and credits ner

lapse of memory to a drug induced amnesia administered to

her on order of a Central Intelligence Agency employee,

A. Spencer, Braham®

VH

from lunch,

place in the Centra. Intelligence Agency office located on

the second floor of Avenue Gabrielle

paris, France,

She [se]

stated that she does not recall who kas talking, but that

the conversation concerned the fact that the President was

not doing what was good for the country, especially about

Vietnam, and that he had to be done away with within the

next five years,

She stated that following this remark,

the group noticed that she had returned, and the conversation

was terminated.

Robinson stated that the following Friday,

she was given U.s.

Dassellathe personnel oilicer,

Ion cedes tee to an unrecalled

Army Medical Facility in Paris for a polio innoculation.

stated that upon arriving at the medical acilitys

was injected with

some type of drug which the Medical

Technician,

later told her was a drug which would make

forget everything. * (U)

Miss Robinson

Stated that she now recalls thet

the technician told her

"that she would even forget getting

shot, and that upon

question a dout the on ection o ranenna she remembers

that she told him that apparently she had received a polio

annoculation, but did not

recall at that time receiving

**

NH 50953

DooId: 3212244B

Page 1

---

## Page 5

BA 89-30

RE: ASSASSINA NION, OF,

, PRESIDENT JOHN

FITZGERALDI KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

November 22, 1963,

Miss Robinson stated that two weeks following

this, she

was telephonically contacted by terry Artin, Jr

another employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, Paris;

France, and told to come to his

emergency

typing.

She stated that upon arniving at Lunn's

she was met by Lunn, Braham, JackA last name unknown,

beginning with "C"). These men began making sexual advances

towards her, and she stated that she became extremely upset

begged to be allowed to go home. She was told that she

could not go home in her distraught condition and was given

a Elass of water and

told to relax. She stated that she

lost consciousness

for approximately ten to fifteen minutes

and

when she awoke she

She

stated that she was

She stated that

happening there would be a lot of troubte.

(0)

called Lapham and he

later appeared at the apartment and

also raped hey.

She

was

stated that later that evening

she

taken to her apariment dad put into her own dad.

Miss Robinsonisaid that at & later date, exact

Ime unknown, she again overheard a conversation between

(4) (0) Braham and [aphamSyconcerning the fact that "Mr. Big" had

that anyone who knew of "the plans" should be

Laphampstated during the concersation that nothing

done about her while she was in Paris since there

would be

too many questions asked about her death in France.

Miss Robinson stated that Braham is now residing

in Falls

church, Virginia; Lunn now owns two art calleries

and a real estate office

in washington

-D. C.j and Lapham

Is now

residing in Bettesch, Meryland l

• (U)

i .

m3*-

ITH

50953

Doold: 32122446

Page

---

