# 124-10225-10118

## Page 1

124-10225-10118

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

5/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10118

HQ

105-114543-1ST NR 164

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CIA

DATE: 06/11/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JURE, EXILE GROUPS, PLAN, INFILTRATE CUBA, DUTIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

10953

D001d: 32299338

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

TONN

REP

RIF

ORM

CENTRE INTELLIGENCE AGEN

AHION

REPORT

This caterial contains informetion alecting the Netional Detense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18; J.S.C. Secs. 793 and 19s, tho transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by-law.

S-E-CRIE-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Plans of/Cuban Exile Groups for

DATE DISTR.

CS-3/583,533

11 June

1964

CIA HAS ONE OBJECTiON Foon Against Cuba

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

BRACKETS

NO. PAGES

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Excopi FoR the

2

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jm 6-25-97

s00/055

REFERENCES

85-47 (JFK) CRETE 145-108011 (HORNE)

110510603674120)

DATE OF

Mid-April - 6 May 1964

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

y

7741336819

INFO.

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED

PLACE &

England, London

DATE /0-22 94BYSp8 mAC/isR 105-112098 (SNFE)

DATE ACQ. (25 May 1964)

JILL

FIELD REPORT

NO.

OEL-38129

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

An official British service, from a regular source, probablys

rellable, from persons mentioned in the report.

Ento

EE.

1.

In a private conversation on 4 May 1964 a member of the Frente

de Obreros Revolucionario Cubanos (FORC, Front of Revolutionary

Cuban Workers) claimed that the following exile groups were

conniving to take action against Cuba within the next few months:

che Junta

Revolucionaria, Cubana (JURE

• Cuban Revolutionary Junta

Che Movimiento de Recuperacion Perdrucionaria (MRR,.

Movement for

Revolutionary Recovery); the Ejercito Rebelde ER,

/ Rebel Army) ;

"Alliance" of the Movimiento Revolucionario Popular (MRP,

Popular Revolutionary Movement), the Segundo Frente Nacional del

Escambra? (SENE, Second National Front of the Escambray, and

Alpha 66.

2..

JURE, the ER, and the "Alliance" were planning to encer Cuba to

prepare the groundwork for internal insurrection, white the MRR

to carry out diversionary hit-and-run attacks on

the Cuban

coasts.

Meanwhile, the FORC was building up its own clandestine

organization among the workers in Cuba; its aim is to organize

sabotage and slow-downs In Cuban industries, thus paving the way

for an eventual general

strike.

FORC claims to have the support

of the Confederacion de Trabajadores Venezolanos (CTV, Venezuelan

Workers' Confederation) and of the Confederacion Latinoamericana

Sindicatos Cristianos

(CIASC, Latin American Christian Trad:

Union.

10514343

NOT RECORDED

3

who is independent of

any exile organi,

sation,

a11 exile groups, including JURe, have

the

ictive backing of the united States.

JURE was said to have

received anne anather material from the United

States

in recent

months.

/ i?

58 JUL 2

1964

NO FORCION

S-ECISISSEM EE JUN 26 1964

1

3

GROUP 1

NH 50953 DocId: 32299338

Page 2

---

