# 124-10190-10078[c06716575]

## Page 1

124-10190-10078

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

*_ OPININA IRAN NO 10

3018-108

MAY IOS8 AMLIQI

GSA GUIS PIG. NO 21

•UNTTEN STATES SiN S

SMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. R. Wannall!'

• DATE: 2/26/74

111208

W. O. Cregar

1

• Mx. Nicholas

Nt. Cregar

A WICT:

THOMAS RINA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CZECH

Assoc. Dir, ..

Dop, 1D Adm.

Dep. AD liar.

Asse. Die..

Admin.

Comp. Sy8e.

Enr. Allares

Foles a Cons.

Gan Inv.

Inspection

Laboratory-

Plor. & Evnl.

Spoc. lest.

Training .

Logol Caun.

Tolaptono Mo..

Dlerstor Sney.

On 2/20/71 Mr.

furnished the following information.

Scott filer, CIA, telephonically

!

LIA's Domestic Colloction Division (DCD) has

a source

WHO

Recently

advised his

DCD contact thut he had learned from a suB-source

: who

"In "

turn learned iron a friend, not identified to

SOURCE

that the friend had seen subject in Bratislava,

Czechoslovakia,

in late 1973.

According to CA? the.

souRcE had no additional

information regarding this matter

and had failed to obtain

the identity of the iriend of his

Inasmuch as we do not have a current investigative

interest in Riha, no further action is warranted in this

case.

ACTION:

for information and record purjoses.

NOC: ebc

(3) stic

REGIO

41°

Eatentire

B FED 89909071

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outrias your Committee.

Its use is limited to offirial proceedings by

• your Commi' e ani the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

i.,!

S5MAR5 1974

---

## Page 2

OPTIONI PORA NO. 10

5010-100

MAY 1OG2 EDITION

OSA GEN

120.N0.28

UNITED STATES GOT BANMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. R. Wannally.

pry :. 1. O. Cregar

DATE: 2/26/74

Mr. Nicholas

1 - Mr. Cregar

• Assoc. Die.. =

Dop. AD Adm

Dop. AD 10r.

Asst, Dir..

Comp. Syrs.

Ext, Allerer

Files & Con...

Gen: Inn.

Ident..com.

Inspection

insoll.c

Laboralory um

Plon. & Evar.

Spec. Inv. -_

Training.

Legal Coun. -_.

Tolaphono Ra. -

Diractor See'y -

THOMAS RIHA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CZECH

On 2/20/74 Mr. Scott Miler, CIA,) telephonically

furnished the following information.

LCIA's Domestic Collection Division (DCD) has

a source at the University of Indiana by the name of

Professor Robert, Byrnes:

Recently Byrnes advised his

DCD contact that he had

learned from & former student who

in turn learned from a friend, not identified to Professor

Byrnes,

that the friend had seen subject in Bratislava,

Czechoslovakia, in late 1973.

According to Miler the Professor had no additional

information regarding this matter and had failed to obtain

the identity of the friend of his former student.

Inasmuch as we do not have a current investigative

interest in Riha, no further action is warranted in this

case.

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

VOC: ebo

(3) sir

REG-I9

-41°

5 SMAR 5

1974/1

---

