# 124-10269-10343

## Page 1

124-10269-10343|

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Dedessific l 157

Classified by

Escript front GDS, Gatezer

Date reDoclassilication Racti

- OPHIONAS PURR NO. 10

UNITED SINTES GO

MENT

Memorandum

SECRÉT

TO

DIRECTOR, IBI (134-5103)

DATE:

3/11/60

FROM

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (234-1132))

His-

SUBJECT:

(Cs SI 2279-53

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE - [OHTHESE

ReBulet 2/23/60.

The following data is being furnished to the Bureau

concerning the operation of this source:

vil

redach

The operation of this source is secure from all

standpoints at this time.

In this security becomes an issue

at any time in the future, the Bureau 111l be immediately

notified and the source mill be discontinued until such time

as its security can de guaranteed.

As the Bureau is well aware, this source furnishes a

magnitude of vital infomation dertaining to acilvities within

Red Coina, including its economical and industrial acnievenenü..

For instance, during the past six months, this source continueu

co furnish intormation relating to u.s. eaucaved Leninese who have

since returnea tollea china and identilled their current posi10.

in their respective rields of science. This source also reveals

the inüimate feelings which these Chinece scientists have

concerning liie in china, as well as their pros and cong concerning

•life and science in general, chile studjing anc

residing in the rs.

1 true picture of life: in China today is also related by the

information nich unis source furnishes reflecting life in geneial

to be horrible due to the lack of proper food, housing, clothes,

prote pha the cons

equipment,

and the complete disregard of a human person's

individual rights.

Source still continues to furnish up-to-date news

on tha romer korean prisoners of var (bureaus) and their trac.

non ero Chinese communist end anti-us, as well as tro

future plansa Source reveals the luentluy of their iriends in.

2. Bureau (AM REG.)

SF

PJH/15

(3)

REC- 23 CE

P MAR 11 1060

5770-5-505

35J

SEC

k;

---

## Page 2

SY 134-2132)

TJH/Id

SEGRET

source has jusnished complete cubscription lists of

Leading pro-chinese communis.

publications which are published

in Hong ong, B.C.C, In this regard, source lurnishes lachuttle.

or those individuals residing in the U.s. no act as agents 1or

these Chinese communist publications.

source still continues to furnisn up-to-date news

concerning merican

clunzens who nave prochinese communist

sympathies residing on the Mainlana of China? These Americans

In some way are employed by the Chinese Conmunist Government anc

in parvicular, une source was able to locaie une

current

winereabouts of one(VIRGI.IUS FRAIL COE, New Yorespionage suoject

This source continues

furnish pertinent incoration alse relative to the activitier

and writings of him wisE stroNGand her signt to have the

This dunce cunninually furniches tha adontation on

many U.s, citizens who have violated the U.s. passport laws by

having actually traveled to and throughout led China.

Source continually identities cercein U.s.

scientists

who are on iriendly terms wich U.s. educaced Chinese scientlets

who have since returned to China and at the same time, makes

available certain reguests which these Chinese scientists maje

of their scientific frienas in the U.s.

In certain instances,

the sureau has been able to develop potential double agents in

the Chinese/security field, because of these requesis made vy

these Chinese)scientisto

ge the tau china der heo

assisis in evaluating the reliability of double agents as in the

been approached by lepresentative:

In rolls case, this source aus

been able to corroborate information which Toil has furnished

the Bureau.

In the countcrintelligence field

this source continues

to monitor correspondence so one JAMES CHAOS who

• in a at nine ror the cane be cong as or 0 a he car to se

communist front.

considerable data has been uncovered concerning pio

Chinese)comunlot symathies on the bas of U.s. Governnent

employces, thus causing the ricid and the Lweau to iritlut.

140 SG cases.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

(sP 1132)

TH/1S

SECRET,

This source enables San Francisco to Keep up with ne

current residences and employments of various San Francisco securi:

and si subjeces and aù the came time, sourse furniches the te:-

points which these subjecis have concerning Red China, as weld as

their anti-us statements which they have made.

being missing from the San Francisco area for several years.

In other inscances, this source has reycaled seviral

Chinese security subjects to be now residingion the lainlans o

china, and attending institutions of higher

learning even

though Us passports for these individuals have not been issuea.

conferer.ces,

Chinese scientists and have initiated correspondence.

Altnough

some of these us, scientists have been contacted by the fiela

relative to their willingness to cooperate in the double agent

Iield, San Francisco has no knowledge concerning the ouicome.

Source still continues to furnish pertinent information

relating to various (CIA)subjects which information has beenple

aisseminated.

Many, Of the U.., educated Chinese scientists

been approached by CI's cover operation in San Mrancisco li

as double agents oy that agencyl

source continually shows the techniques and pressina

put on Chinese) scientists remaining in the U.S. in crackto corse

cherto return to China Jand worl for he notherland In this

regard,

valuable infornation concaming

the advancement which the Chinese communists have made in certain

scientific fields.

Source still continues to identify numerous U.s.

citizens who are ir contaci with various long Kong pro-Crinese

communist publishing firmo.

Fraudulently and hao also tumtahed once means co

¿o Communist Chinithrouch drop: in long songand har aldo 5:3

Jeave Connunist China nich has been of ascistance in evalia

Che scorles which cecent innielants furnish durine the cource oi

intervious by Bureau agents.

SL.CKFF

---

## Page 4

..,÷*

(ST 134-132)

PTH/IS

SECRET

Numerous potential security informants have been

developed due to the type of information which this souice

has

furnished in San Exancisco.

Uponrecelpt of the translations of the Chinese material

which is forwarded to the Bureau, as well as an evaluation made

of the English language material, which is photostated, san

Francisco furnishes to the other field aivisions only that

material which can be consürued as having intelligence value.

In manyinstances, San Francisco has knowledge concerning the

identities of security subjects residing within other field

divisions and furnishes pertinent data concerning these individual:

Numerous requests are made by certain Chinese, sciéntists to 102:===

to then certain technical books and publications in the .

scientific field which information is also furnished to other

field divisions.

In the case of (Caucasiáns) traveling throughout Red

China, who may possibly be U.s. citizens, this data is also

•

furnished to other olIICes:

At this time, this source as a general rule has access.

to all mail emanating from long Kong, s.C.C. and Communise Crira,

destined for the U.S; however, on certain gecasions, this source,

due to the routing of mail by

the Post office from the droor,

sometimes misses certain mail bags.

For the Bureau's information, San Francisco processes

approximately 13,500 first class letters a day not Including

third class publications. In this connection; however, it 13

noted that the processing must be done in a very limited cine,

two hours maximum.

curthernore, in view of the existing

limitacions, the quentity of material chosen for complets

translation

1s necessarily linited to no more than 50 per day,

some of which as further time pernts for a closer scrutiny, is

later disroarded and no further action taken, other than

returning the material to the source.

SECRET

---

