# 124-90137-10324

## Page 1

124-90137-10324

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10324

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-120213-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/03/1963

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JOAQUIN PALACIO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953 DocId: 32337558

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

DECLASSITICATION AUTHCRITY DERIVED ERCU:

EBI AUTONATIC LEELASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 06-02-2023

BY: E54393X42

•

Bali

* SECRET®

Director

dentral Intelligence Agency

NOTE. TOR. SAC

WEN VORK:

For doto regarding subject's wife you are referredad

to your file 138-2644.

Contact established sources

to further

identify the subject and to ascertain unether there is any basis

for allegation that he

is cuban agent.

Unless these inquiries

develop data which would tend to substantiate the allegation.

no further inquiry should be conducted due to the lack of

specific data regarding this agent allegation LLs soon as a

established sources whether subject's wife is still employed

if so, determine her position there.

Juan Maria Dias is subject of your file 105-5951.

Enclosed are

two copies of CIA letter 4/23/531k

NONE®

eportedly was told by an administratiue employee yan Len

Juice of the President of the Dominicon Republic Chat subiect

extensive inquiries on Juan Maria Diaz,

Yather of subject's wife.

He was a leading figure in NYC in onti-irujillo activities.

from

[CIA

Classified "seoret"'as it containsdata received

which was so classified.

SEXRET

7398

H# 50953

DooId: 32337558

Page

2

---

