# 124-10367-10027

## Page 1

124-10367-10027

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10367-10027

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 134-10900-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/13/1963

' PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

ERNESTO ARAGON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NY 50953

DocId: 32318864

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIZICATION AUTACAITY DERIVED EROM:

EBI AUTOVATIC DECLASSIZICATION CUIDE

DATE 03-18-2023

EX: 204338442

4LI ISPOTUNITON CORTAINED

597F1 20 ZXCEP

CONFOEN

239217.9

Oraris.

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

• ME 3.

CONNO

DECLASSIFIED

13/0

A HAS NO DEJECTION TI

DECLASSISCATION

AND/03,

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORGATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

eat bush

ANTI - FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

502198

HEPE

LATE MATION CONTAINEDA AH 2/4/41

CLASSIFIED BY SIS STOKS ACES

STED

SHOWN

DECLASSIFYON: 25X

RAISE

The following information is not

being submitted

In a form suitable for dissemination because disclosure

of this information could be decrimental to the best

Interests of the United States.

The enclosed Information

1s being submitted for the guidance of the Bureau, Miami

and WFO relative to the above captioned subject matter.

Dr. ERNESTO ARAGON Y GODOY, 233 East 69th Sireet,

New York City, forner member of the Cuban Revolutionary Council

(CRC) and close associate of Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA of the

CRC, on 7/30/63 advised that he had difficulty in obtaining

employment since the disbanding of the CRC in April, 1963,

after MIRO CARDONA resigned as President of the CRC.

ARAGON stated that in submitting to an interview with

two nationally known insurance companies, he had been

Informed by them in letters stating their reluctance to

hire him because he was too closely identified wich the

KENNEDY Administration and these companies felt that this

relationship would be harmful to his employment with the

companies

8

(4)

ARAGON giated that as a result of failure to obtain

gaful employment and as a result of the aforementioned letters

which he received, he requested and received an interview with

Attorney General ROBERI F. KENNEDY. ARAGON stated that the

Attorney General informed him that he would do everything

possible in order to

assist ARAGON in obtaining some type

of employment. &(u)

14490-1636-736

Hassiher

Betassify on: 0948 472/84

bureau (109-584

(RM)

1-

Miami 105-1742

INFO, (RM

Washingion Field

105-299951

New Yor (104-75253427.)

PJO: chj

(5)

(INFO) (RM)

CONCENTAG

4 - 10'400

NOT AECORDED

202 SEP 25 1963

ORIGINAL

FILED IN 104-584

NW 50953

DooId: 32318864

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-35253

CONFIDENTI

ARAGON also advised on 7/30/63 that he had taken

an examination in Washington,

D.C. during the latter part

of July, 1963, at the United States Department of State in

order to obtain a job from this department as an

interpreter and translator.

ARAGON

advised that he had

ust received word that he had passed the examination anc

she the State Department

contemplated utilizing his services

within the next few weeks.

ARAGON also advised that this

job as an interpreter and translator for the United States

Department of State would entail his travelling with visitors

from Latin America to various states and to various

universities throughout the United States.

he would receive a fixed daily amount plus $20.00 a day

expenses for each day he worked for the state Department in

the capacity of a translator and interpreter. @(es

ARAGON further stated on 7/30/63 that due to hig

past close association with the Bureau ,and his confidence and

crust in the Bureau although he had been instructed not

to disclose his association, nevertheless, he. wanted the

Bureau to know that as of 8/1/63. he would be placed on the

payroll of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), at the sum

of $300.00 per month plus expenses...

been asked to perform certain assignments for CIA and

had been told that he may, at times, have to travel i0r the

agency to meet and interview certain people for them.

ARAGON requested that his connection with CIA be held in

the strictest of confidence andunder no circumstance should

CIn Authat he disclosed this connection be mentioned to

ARACON on 9/4/63, was contacted at which time he

stated that he already had had one assignment from the

State Department to travel with a couple of students from

Bolivia who were visiting in washington, D.C.

He also

stated that he expected another assignment from them within axweek

ARAGON also advised on 9/4/63, that he has made two

trips to foronto, Canada, for CIA in order to contact RATRICIO@JU)

ESTEVEZ of the Consolidado del Canada, which is a group off&

CONPSRNTIAD

-2-

CORF

105A

HW 50953 DocId:32310864 Page 3

---

## Page 4

POINT

«(4)

NY 105-35253

LONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

canadian insurance companies in cuba whom Extever represents

(U)

ARAGON stated Chat he had contacted stevie since helmew

whereby the CIA would be in regular contact withlis sgp,.CA Un

nim from Havana and through ESTEVEZworked out an arrangement AU)

PATRICIO ESTEVE JR., Who also works for che same

Insurance firms but tho 1s now living in Toronto, Canada. de

ARAGON advised from his various meetings with

representatives of the United States Department of State,

CIA and the Department of Defense and from contacts among

Cuban exile groups,

that he is of the opinion that the

Anti-CASTRO movementne at the present time is back in

the same situation it was in prior to the invasion of

Cuba in April, 1961.

ARAGON advised, chat by this

statement, he meant

that once again the cIA is

acting independently ofother Governmental Agencies and

that their acüivities at the present time are greatly

increased and they report to no one

and only advised

responsible individuals after a certain mission has been

carried. out.

ARAGON stated once again the United States

State Department is confined to matters of a political

and economic nature relative to Cuba while the Department

of Defense is closely watching any milltary activity &

(n)

in Cuba.

ARAGON advised that from his own knowledge he is

absolutely positive that the following organizations are

being completely supported by the CIA:

1. Unidad Revolucionaria - This organizationa

is headed by JOSE F. RODRIGUEZ ESPADA and MARIO

SEIGLE.

in recent months, has done a tremendous job in

getting out a newspaper, booklets and various forms

of propaganda which are sent all over Latin America

and are printed in both English and Spanish.

ARAGON

also advised that they have put out a booklet

listing the arrivals and departures of all foreign

ships to and from Cuba.

ARAGON stated that the

work done by the organization is very impressive

and undoubtedly it has cost a large sum of money

which obviously comes from CIA.

=3-

SECRET

• (U)

N 50953 DocId: 32318864 Page 4

---

