# 124-90107-10140

## Page 1

124-90 107-10 140)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10140

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/25/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMANDOS L:

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

' RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: LHM

19.1

HIH

30933

DocId: 32333557

Page 1

81

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-24-2023

BY: 3043/98142

UNILED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer t0

File No.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISCATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Miami,

IN THIS DOCUWENT. EXCLA BRACHESJUN 2 51963

Florida

IN IP 2

KP 11-19-97

RE :

SEGRET

ALL INFSAMATIOD CONTAINED

KENSIN IS

ASSIZED

COMA NDOS L

EXCEPT WI

SHOWN

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; OTERWISE

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

4-194

Classified

Declassity or: CABRIFK)

(U)

On June 15, 1963,

MM T-I, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence

investigations, advised

that on June 14, 1963, information was received that captioned

organization is rumored to be planning a raid against the

North coast of Cuba sometime between June 14 and 20, 1963.

The target is reportedly,

at the boundry line of Matanzas and

Havana Provinces, Cuba.

(и)

MM I-1 explained that the source of the information

an American owner of a marina with intimate knowledge of

maritime activities 19 Florida and this source received the

information from a person who has contact with Cuban military

and political groups in Miami.

FLA

DZO

On June 15, 1963, Antonio/Rerez Quesada, 224 South-

west 4th Avenue, Miami,

advised that he is a cuban fishermai,

a member of Comandos

I and has participated in raids against

Cuba with this organization in the past. Perez stated he (i.l2.

knew of no immediate plans for any such raid and doubted the

organization was considering any such plans for the near

future.

MM T-2 and MM T-3, who have been active in Cuban

revolutionary activities for the past five years, and who

have furnished reliable information in the past,

advised

that they are in almost daily contact with the leaders of

Comandos I and there are no indications that this organization

has any military activity planned for the immediate future, U

reacheR

Classifies

Padla

489x 9-1-83

SEC

GROUP PE

AUTONA FrE DOWNe

(DEETA SSIFICATION

PROM CLASS.

TING HINDSON- TO

DATE

IEW

Spy sea for

HH 50953 DocId:32333557 Page 2

---

