# 124-10213-10477

## Page 1

124-10213-10477

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10213-10477

HQ

CR 105-125545-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

CIA

CIA

DATE: 05/22/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LCA, ASSOC, ACA, CUBAN EXILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32294701

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INTORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORI

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This matertal contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 194, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law

S-E_C-R-E_T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Spain

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Soliciting of

Aid

for Arms

and

DATE DISTR.

CS-3/581,774

22 May

1964

Ammunition by Los Juramentados,

an Anti-Castro Group

NO. PAGES

2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR,

REFERENCES

RELEASE. OF CIA INFORMATION

DATE OF

April 1964-

INFO.

IN THiS DOCUMENT. EXCEpt thE bRACKETS

PLACE &

Spain, Madrid

KP 11-18-97

(510/KSfe 1-3-98)

JFK

DATE ACQ. (17 April 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

n official Spanish service.

ER OF SUBJECT ORCAI

1. CLos Juramentados (Those Sworn In), an anti-Castro group,

is

soliciting

aid in

the form of arms

and munitions,

with

the in-

Vicente Eladio.

4 calle Ballesta, piso

2,

domiciled at No. 4 calle

Campomanes, piso 4,

in Spain.

Madrid, a

are special delegates of the group

ORANENLON

Los Juramentados

is composed of the following Cuban exiles and

representatives

anti-Castro groups, among others:

Former Rebe] Army Major Raul Diaz Torres

Xcomez (càlzadilla,

Ramon of the

the organizacion Revolucionaria del

Transporte (ORT, Transportation Revolutionary Organization),

Jor

Julio Rojas of Tribuna Libre,

O Mario Fontela of the Frente Obrero Revolucionario Democratico

(FORDC, Cuban Workers' Revolutionary Democratic Front),

Dr.

(fnu) Alabau Tredles of the judiciary in exile, 1

The college of Newspapermen and Correspondents.

Guarantors for the group include the following persons:

Luis Moreno Alvarez,

leader of the 30 November group,

one of the

brigade

members who

landed

at Playa Giron

during

April 1961

invasion;

5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

NAVY

USIA

TAIR

I&NS

INSA

OCR

ogdanification

IFBI

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

_copies mado

1ur review at FBIHQ by

£43.

HE 50953

_DocId: 32294701 Page 2

ALL EBDINFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS VACASEE

DATE //S/93

BY SP SMAC/GOL

(5FK)

---

## Page 3

¿OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

EX-114

105 125545-3-105-125545

mi6/4164

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

*& JUN 3

:1964

SEC

JUN 2 10 12 AM '64

- 2 -

ÖS-3/581; *

Lo and era deader of factor to Moviero de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria

Movement

Recovery) ;

04/13/28

Dr..

Luis Conte

Aguero..

robreview at fBie by

HSCAre_3-14 requeste

JUN 18 quarters Comment.

This probably

probably refers to Francisco

3!

Alabau Trelles,

who in August 1963 was reported to be the

secretary general of the federacion de instituezones.

Juridicas

Cubanas: (FIJC) :

213-10477

81961

JUN: 3 / 20 PM 64

REC'O "

DOM INTELL DIV

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Tw. 50057-DanTd: 32294701Page 3

---

