# 124-10291-10319

## Page 1

124-10291-10319

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10319

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-25, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

08/18/1965

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL

HISTORY AND BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC 2 MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NW 50953

DocId:32307179

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 05-18-2023

ET: F5 1493K12

p; =

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FRUR (41 CFR) 101 - 11.8

UNITED STATES GO

AHMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

10/6/65

FROM AB/SAC, CINCINNATI (105-3048) (C)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT:

MYRIAM FINKELMAN

IS - CUBA

(00: Cincinnati)

Y-WINER

HEREINS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF GIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTEX CEPT

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65.

BRACKETS

ткн 2-6-98

Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead

memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning

captioned matter.

It is classified Confidential because

of the source from which the information emanated.

Cor

The source is identified as Liaison Sectiond

(V)

mahat species

in Spain, has never been to the U. S., and there is no

reason to believe she will come to this country within the

near future.

Lobureau (Enc.

(RM)

-Cincinnati

REM: blb

. (3)

DENCLOSU

5-30-9883

CLASSIFIED BX

DSCLAS2IY

5448 5W/KSR

JFK

111/90.

Classified

Declassify gh:

UADR JET

REC- 43

105-42242-25

1

OCT 7 1965

10177°

4/26/66

COPY tO: CIA /STATERAO

ONI /OSI/ACSI

By routing slip for info.

Dates= 10/15$665

NAT

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings

• Plan

5010-108

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

RE:

MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER

1800 SOUTH TREASURE

samenton MiAmi Bell, Brother

PRiVE

same as above

Francis Lyons.

ELA.

Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Vall

Salomon Finkelman

Brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue,

Miami, Florida

Clara

Delaster.?

Julie Abramson

Sister - Miami, Florida

Niece - 57 State Road, Portland,

Maine

According to Dr. Manuel Contina, who was formerls

icquainted with Winer in Santa Clara, she is currentl

-(U)

Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in

Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address,

however, he said she is believed to be living with an

unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas.

According to the knowledge of the source, they are not married.

The source could not furnish any additional information

concerning Winer's activities and stated there is no

indication she will leave spain and come to the United States y

CONCIDENTIS!

THIS IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI.

AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS. CONTENTS

ARE TO SE DISTRISUTED OUTSIDE THE

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.

= 2 .

911-10311

HH 50953 Do0Id:32307179 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DECLASSIEICATION AUTECEITI DEBIYED TROU

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 05-15-2023

BY: 3043/98142

GSA GEN. PEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 8/18/65

FROM

LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

MIRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER

IS - CUBA,

(00 - Cincinnati)

FEELIN HERE IS TATA SINTO

ALL INFORZATION CONTAINER,

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

50817

leve

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65.

There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati

each one copy of

a memorandum, dated 8/9/65 prepared by the

Liaison Section (CIA)]SAmerican Embassy, Madrid, Spain,

containing background information regarding the fartioned

subject

It appears that the subject is presently residing

at tara soda instaye a the director of english Language

The Consular Section has no record of an applica-

tion for a United States visa from the subject.

We have

requested that they advise us in the event a visa application

is received.

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE DE CIA INEPRIMATION EXCOpY Fon brACKETS

IN THIS DOCUMENT

2-6-98

Bureau (Encs. - 2) /ENOLOSURE

(a - Liaison section)

(1 = Cincinnati, 105-3048)

1 - Parisk

NWP: eim

(5)

5-30-48

CLASSIFIED BY

5668 S1D/15ke

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

FER) I!.

REC-54: 105-117262-24

slo

14 AUG 83

196g

MCT: 45

Classilied by.

Declassily on:

DABS

DOW INJECT DIA'

4 Exch.

copy to.

Cincinnate.

3 38 61 8a

by routing ship fol

El info iX action

19 bow yo

SEC.

NAte

5410031

NH 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENIIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Consular Section

Liaison Section

9 August 1965

FROM:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SUBJECT:

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

Mirian Fintenan WINNER (OF WINER) RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN IHIS DOCUMENT, EXCOpT BRACkEr

mK4. 2-6-98

According to

the subject su lok

was born in Foland on 5 February 1922; she becane & Cuban citizen in 1945.

5-38.00

Subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport

#34059 tasued on 24 July 1956. Her last isnown address in Cuba was'Ronds 17,

Apt. 10, Haban-

The folloving is Subject's educational history:

ALL TOMATORE

NO CONTAINED

1930 to 1936 - Primary school at Iudvipol, Poland

BRaD

1938 to 1942 - High school Instituto Martanao, Babana

4/25 Span/s

1912 to 1947 - University of Habana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)

1958

- University of Columbla, New York (sumer school studying

German-Iterature).

From 1955 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages

at the Central University in Santa Clara, las Villas. She held the same po-

sition from 1961 to 1962 at the Univerilty of Hibans. She reportedly speaks.

English, German and Spanish fluently.

On arrival in Madrid In 1963, Subject Ileted the following members of

her Armediate family:

Ans

finner

Sam/benton

- mother - 1800 S. Treasure DrIve, Miami Beach.

Florida

- brother sane as above.

• sister"

" 14 Velton Street, Fortland, Maine

Florida

Salomon Winkelman - brother - 3105 su 79th Avenue, Miant, Florida

Mant, Florida,

Julie Abranson niece

*57 State Road, Portland, Maine..

According to Manuel Cortins, who was formerly acquainted with Subject 1r

Cho Stibject is currently the Director of English Iangunge at the

Mangold Institute in Vadrid,

He bas no information concerning her present ad-

dress, however, he said subject 1s belleved to be living with an unidentified

Cuban exile who was & professor la las Villas; to Source's knowledge,

they are

not married. Source has no additional information concerning Subject's cur-

rent activitles.

CROUP I

Excluded from

autonatie downgradins

and declassification

199915

C7200

105-11

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL

51058 2205225

Sb598

5d1-10310

HH 50953 DooId: 32307179 Page 5

---

