# 124-10369-10038

## Page 1

124-10369-10038

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

4/15/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-B9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SIZOO

SULLIVAN

DATE: 06/19/1967

"PAGES:

325

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, COVER PAGE, MEMO, A/T, TTY, NOTES, NEWS ARTICLES, LHM, FD-302,

LET, INSERT, LIST, S/S, EXHIBIT

v9.1

HH 50953

27

DooId: 32319404

Page 1

---

## Page 2

sudaivan

D. €. Maore

C

296r

Belatch

Sx311v2n

BONELESS

22, 1083g DALLAS, TEXAS

On 4/22/01 at 3150 D.

mith regare to cablegran he sent 4/21/01 in captioned mattox.

Recab atated that supaper in Mesico City reported azzival

o1 for Grieane Mstriot Attorney Janes Garrison 1e lorico

and Logat's source in Merican Foderal

Bcculty Pollee soquested

any infornation indicating Garrison satendos to investigato

captioned matter in Moxico and zeasons for Garrison's presence

in Menico-

When Logot called, ho statod that nompapere are

No said Gone say Currison

requested to be advised it our lev Orleans Office esuld stato

that Carrison wo actully in Nen Iricans shich sould solvo

many probions since legat is under terrifte pressure trom

He requested to be telephonleally advised con-

coming thie sitter

hew orleans vas telophonteally contacted and se

Fore curioed that the news ortteles in lew Orlenas reportod

rumors that, Garrison was in Mexico,

hovever, this was consed

by carpisons nancial backor Willard Robertson she apparently

19 in Acapuleo, Mexico:

It was further dented by Carrioonto

Thie Intornation mis furnished to the Lognl Attache

Zously careful to avold boing lavolved ta any facete of the

COrTIsOn Savestigation.

ACTIOT:

For lafosuation::

RC2/VBS:seq (5)

HH

50953

Do01d:32319404 Page 2

---

## Page 3

79-28- Eest ran

4/17/67

Atrtel

To:

БАС, New Orleans (80-69)

Iron:

Director, FBI (62-109060)

ASBASSINATION OP PRESIDIT

JON KTAGERALD INNEDT

DALLAS, TEXAS, 11/22/63

MISCELTANIOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNINO

Fourtirtel 4/14/61 attine forts remits of your

Intervier with fermer 10 1370C, Durias mch laterview your

source turnimbed Informntion he riceived from Baly and he also

Trished Inforation regardine i contnot he hnd with

Lyn Leinel.

Yun whould inndlately forward to the bureau a

Intertend monorn sultable for discominatios vetting forth

data you reportel la your nirtal of 4/14/07.

Tour attention 1o dirocted to Drona airtel to all

offices anted hurch 6, 1987, lantreeting that any portineat

Inferntion relatins to the sensintion o1 President Kenaody

1e to be Incorporated Into A lottorhood memornder mitable

for disremiantion and furninhed to the Buzou by mirtel the

mano date it is received.

In the future, mne cortain that those intriction

are follored by your o1f1oo.

1 • Dallas (0963)

REL:aS

(5)

NH 50953 DocId: 32319404 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DECLASSICICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED ERDI

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

Mr. Lenihan

4/10/07

SAC, New York (09-70)

Di roctor, FBI (100060)

ASSASGINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOIN FRIGERALD RANTISDI

DALLAS,

TEXAS

ALLINFORMATIONCONTAINEO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

11/22/63

MIECELLANCOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Seurairtel in captioned matter which enclosed to

the Dureau tvo coptos of a letterhead memorandun dated

March 22,-1067, which sot forth information recelved

fron

[WY 0812-3*|regarding the assasination of the late

Prosident Bonnedy -

(U)

The Duronu has Alecussed contents of your

lotterbead memorandun with tho Central Intelligence Ageney

in accordance with current procedures for handling such

inforuation and there is attached e copy of a letterhead

ponorandus which was prepared at font of Government which

made ninor revisions in the nemorandum prepared by your

office.

The Duronu has also classifted the enclosed

nonorandm "Secret" on thebels that this infornation come

iron Lt say a highly sensitive source, and that

CS (V)

unauthorized disclosure of this intoration could cauee

serious damage to the internal security of this country.

for your added inforation, a copy of this

menorandun was disseminated by the Dureau to the State

1 Department, of Justice.

Department, of Just ice tas Secret Service and also to the

CLASSIFIED BY 9803 nola ge

Enclosure

DECLASSIEYON: 254 D

REL:aS

(05 RmB/ (CL 2/8py JK)

(5)

NOTE:

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67 which

approved dissemination of this data to the Department,

Secret Service and State Department.

085

1151

To 80950 DOESN.12319485

Page 1

---

## Page 5

DECLASSICICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED ERDI

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

Mr, #. C. SullivallA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

April 11, 1987

DECLASS/ACATION ANDIOR, ME. C.

D. Deloach

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION.

B. Wick

V. R. Fannell

UN THIS DOOGMENT.

(STUtTENCEPT FoR BRAUKETS

- AT.

w. C. Sullivan

E. Leathan

Mr .

W. R. Wannall

JOIN BYANG, BlaD KnOwn as

Ax. As 1. Solenon

"OrDo Attenborough

INTERNAL SECURITY • JAMAICA

(572) 5115187

CLASSIFED BX 5668-568/666

DECLASSIFYON: 25X

(1)

Subject, now 10 Jamaica and possibly mentally

deranged, clains to be planning revolution to overthrow

government of Jamaica with assistance of unidentified

United States "syndicate" and help from Communiet Cuba.

We are initiating investigation into his activitles wile

he was in the United States, 1953-1966, for benefit of

Jamalcan police,

for lafomation.

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has been

(U)

boat between Janaica and Cuba, lost and out of fuel

and food,

He claimed to be in the

process of attempting to rendervous with unidentified Cubans

with whon he planned to travel to Cuba to collect funds to

be used in the overthrow of the Jannican Government.

Such

funds were to be used to send organized groups of Jamaicans

to cuba for training for this purpose.

Evans clained to be

working with a "syndicate" in the United States which 1s

to Linance = communist revolution in Janaice.

he claimed

this ts the sane "syndicate" which in the United States

had caused Jack fuby to kill lee Earvey Oswald, the assassia

Evans further claimed to be enlisting

ald of Jamnican eriminal element to organize an oxtortion

racket to shake down some 100 off-track betting shops 1n

Jamaica, proceeds from which vere to be used in revolution.

Evans clalas to be & film director, educated in

the United States where he lived from 1959 to 1966. Jamaican

documentation.

He maintained he had engaged in civil rights

activitics while in the United States.

His German-born wife

and child reportedly lived in Binghamton, New York, until

January, 1967, when they joined his in Janalea.

Investigation

to date by Jamaican authorities bas failed to mubstantiate

any of Evans* claims and his true identity is st1ll in doubt.

AHS: rwf

(7)

CONTINUED - OVER

B9

HH

50953

Do01d:32319404

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Nemorandum to Ir. W. C. Sullivan

Re:

JOHN EVANS

Information furnished concerning Bvans indicates

he may

well be mentally unbalanced.

Despite this,

his

Claimed connection with a United States "syndicato" which

caused Ruby to kill Oswald and his alleged major involve.

mont in a plan to overthrow the Janaican Goverment with

Cuban and

"syndicate" assistance along with his indicated

13-year residence in the United States dictate that we

conduct investigation in effort to determine his activities

while in this country. LCIA intende to pass to Spoctal

Branch, jamaica Police Servico, pertinent results of our

inquirios 0X (U)

Bureau files contain no information identifiable

with Evane. By separate letter, New York and Albany being

instructed to initiate investigation. Other offices covering

Evans! clained United States residences instructed to review

thoir files and police and credit records. Pertinent results,

appropriately cloared for passage to Jamaican authoritles,

Wind te Iurnianed to cia Lor rolay to donaica Police Service. Us

(U)

ACTION:

None

For infornation.

SECT

'"'B9

HH 50953

D001d: 32319404 Page 6

---

