# 124-90124-10092

## Page 1

124-90124-10092

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90124-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DOMR

HQ

[Restricted]

DATE: 07/16/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32335534

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

ALL EEL INEDRATION CONTAINED

HEREIM IS UNCLASEIZIEL

DATE 05-13-2023 BY E64193242 ADG

19 00157

16817.02

SM0M4

ransmit the following in

FBI

Date: 7-16-65 21

(Type in plaintext or code)

Airtel

Z9 (Priority

To:

Director, FBIj

From:

Applegat, Santo Domingo (134-31) (BUC)

Subject:

ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO - PSI

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

PEC-

333.

1mp

Reference Buairtel dated June 28, 1965.

Reference

Iso Santo Domingo teletype number 163, dated June 23, 1965,

captioned, "MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WARBELL, III, PSI. " :

12-18-95

SMATION

IN

This

UMENT.

EXCOPT BRACKETS

subject, born in Havana, Cuba; 52 years; height 5'11"; weight

HAS

190 pounds; gray hair; brown eyes; married with no children;

Dominicana de Seguros, a subsidiary of

AMADEO BARLETTA's Enterprises in Santo Domingo.

The report

indicated that RIVERO had worked in the General Motors set-up

in Havana, Cuba, under BARLETTA.

When CASTRO, moved into Cuba,

RIVERO exiled himself to Miami.

BARLETTA then offered RIVERO

a job in Santo Domingo and placed him in charge of the Division

of Insurance of BARLETTA"s General Motors set-up.

RIVERO waS

described as a boisterious, gregarious type, who hits every.?

bar in town and who is extremely loud mouthed.

Files of the Dominican Immigration Service checked

on July 13, 1965, revealed that ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO

• has permanent Dominican Resident Visa 10349, issued to him for

the year 1965. He has had permanent resident status in the

• Dominican Republic since 1962..

The file further indicated that he entered the

eRIAl

• Dominican Republic at Santo Domingo on February 2, 1962, from

Miami, Florida.

He was described as follows:

otogies made

558/917

Bureau

1 - Liaison Section

32-5-78

1 - Santo Domingo

REC- 133

13413856-2

er: Mitchell L. Weabel!

AAC: wlg (5)

195

CHUL 27 1965

Yes the

App

Sent

SUL 20 1965

220 M

Special Agent in Charge

(900 Iurizo #31, 227000)| 1

HH 50953 DocId:32335534 Page 2

---

## Page 3

18-1

Airtel to Director, FBI

RE:

ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO - PSI

lebro 10 trainly

coilot enti..aaiT

+ DOB:

RACE:

COMPLEXION:

WEIGHT:

HEIGHT:

EYES:

HAIR:

MARITAL STATUS:

RESIDENCE:

-July 15, 1911-

White

Light

175 1bs

5? 11"

Brown

Gray

Married

Arzobispo Marino Number 30,

Santo Domingo

JOHN CASSERLY (protect identity), correspondent for

the American Broadcasting System who is known to this office,

advised on July 11, 1965,

with MITCHELL, WARBELL. DID

that RIVERO is currently living

Fry intel

This source advised that RIVERO is notoriously known

as a "wheeler dealer."

He has a number of different businesses

all concerned with automobiles and automobile insurance. He has

associated with BARLETTA who had the General Motors franchise

in Havana, Cuba, for many years.

finene

Source stated that RIVERO has a pleasant personality

but described him as a heavy drinker and stated that RIVERO

would do anything for money. He advised that RIVERO's wife is

one EVANGELINA, HERNANDEZ, a Cuban national. He further

stated

HERNANDEZ has relatives in Miami, Florida, and makes frequent

trips to Miami.

He advised RIVERO allegedly was mixed up in

gambling enterprises but added that he had no proof of this.

Inasmuch as RIVERO is reported to be extremely loud

mouthed and inasmuch as he is currently reported to be living with

MITCHELL WARBELL, [who at one time was reported to be employed by

CIA and who is currently characterized by CIA as a

no further action is being taken with reference to developing:

"eld man" (4)!

this individual as a PSI.

-2-

11.35

•hci900%

90I0d2 n: 1500A 10:0-12

NH 50953 DocId:32335534 Page 3

---

