# 124-90140-10031

## Page 1

124-90140-10031

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90140-10031

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-391429-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/22/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GENE DECASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

2

DocId: 32338074 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NOFORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

RECEIVED FROM

JUN 23 19612

• CIA SJPA)

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mi. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director, Plans JiR

SUBJECT: Gene DE CASTRO

6-EN8

* 2 dUM 1961

6-7-18

COPIES MADE

rVE

PAPICAL

FOR REVIEWAT FAIRO EY

ASCA RET

REQUEST.

(SEE BUFILE #62-117290).

CASTRO

1961

JUI: 27

Io An official offa Swedish security service tas recently requested traces

on the above subject, who is an applicant for "a position of trust" in Sweden. (5)

We note that this man has been the subject of previous correspondence between

this office and your Bureau, including our SO DB-53386, dated 29 May 19520

He

is the subject of your file number 100-391429 & Fal

2o In connection with his inquiry, our Swedish/source has furnished the

following biographic data on DE CASTRO, which Is possibly merely what DE CASIRO

himself provided to the Swedes:

Date and Place of Birth: Born 3 October 1919, Blackpool, England

Citizenship: United States:

Home Address: 4391 Revera (sic) Drive, Coral Gables, Florida

Swedish Address:

c/o RAMBERG, 46 Ostmarksgatan, Harsta (stockholm))

Passport: United States No. 54540

DECLASSIRICATICR AND/OR,

Date of Arrival in Sweden: 30 January 1961 IN THIS DOCUMENT, ENCEPT OnchErS

In asking for information on DE CASTRO, (the Swedish official remarked, without

elaboration, that DE CASTRO is possibly a Communist.

In reply to the official Swedish Inquiry we have received on the Subject,

be pertinent to furnish some extracts from the report made by

James Delk Leland at New York, dated 5 June 1953. We have in mind the following

Items of informations

CSCI3/765

EX-116

+30-391429-11

el tell

(и)

- 3

de'

17 JUN 2x 1961

6-30

ARJISE

Clas:

let be

Manles

2823120/et

DADR

2113.

NOF ORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN JS UNCLASSIFIEL

VATE 525-95BY56668-5L0

OFf

nice

SECRET

SAI.

conclassif

HH 50953 DocId:32338074 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

Subject studied Russian and other Eastern European Languages. While in

Finland, he also taught English..

" did not know what income Subject

had, but wondered how he could manage to make enough money from teaching

English to be able to afford a room costing $40.00 per month, a telephone

and riding lessons, plus the usual normal living expenses.

Do DE CASTRO returned to Sweden, penniless, in about 1958. On a

visit to Helsinki later that year he stated that he had not been able to

find a job in Sweden. During the course of his entire stay in Finland

for about seven years, he gave no indication why he was remaining there

for that length of time and he did not advance himself in any discernible

way. He never visited his mother in England, although he did receive a

Co Subject never expressed any political opinions, but his entire

behavior aroused unfavorable speculation as to why he was in Finland.

do In the summer of 1958 DE CASTRO was hired by Pan American World

Airways to work at the Helsinki Airport, but he was discharged for in-

competence. subject also was given a job teaching English for the

Tampere (a city in Finland) Finnish-American Society, but lost this

position, too, because of incompetence.

Int ormation in paragraph 3 above may be

also appreciate your advising whether you have received a separate inquiry

from official Swedish sources inithis matter.

CSCI-3/765,934

3

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32338074 Page 3

---

