# 124-10291-10051

## Page 1

124-10291-10051

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10051

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-416

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG, CAR

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/23/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, ASSOC, SUSP, BOMBINGS, CUBANA AIRLINES, CHILEAN AMBASSADOR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

07/07/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32306911

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 304493142

FEDERAL BURCAN G

COMMUNICATIO

CLASS

EXTENDEN

02321382 OCT OCTPMU F05

FOF

UND

5a

LiST

11U

FMXCARACAS *

LAID

14 FOR

SOSOLAS:

TO DIRECTOR

ACATINN_.

VIMMEDIATE NR

AZE INRORNATIOR MON

BI

HEREIN IS

ST 80E

BINE

SECRET

LETYPE

Assoc. Dir.

-Dep.-A.D.-Invg-

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv

Ext.

Fin.

Afters

Gen

Idoht.

Matal

Laboratory

Legal Coun

an d

OH

chilboin

4/00/803

Telepfur 5p194

INSUB;

BOMBING OF FORMER

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE

Classifier loy

Declassily on: DADK

UNITED SIATES, MASSACHUSETIS AVE.,

WASHINGTON, D.C.9

# 211,3216

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES.

SEPTEMBER 21, 19755 ACT NOR PROTECTION OF FORSTEN OHION 26

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

SUBS; SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8

ME SAMITIZED GME

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN

BARBADOS, JESE INDIES, OCTOBER 60.19750 NUBA-WEST ENDIESTS

3/7

REBUIEL, OCTOBER 22, 1976. 4

U.S. AMBASSADOR VARY HAS ASKED LEGAI AND CIA STATION CHIEF, J

U)

CARACAS, TO REQUESI THEIR RESPECT IVE HEADQUARIERS IO ADVISE WHAT

CONECTION, IF ANY, FBI AND CIA HAVE HAD WITH PERSONS INVOLVED IN

ONE WAY OR ANOTHER WITH INVESTIGATIONS OF CAPTIONED MATTERS.

AMBASSADOR HAD BEEN TOLD BY LEGAI THAT RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE

WAS FORMER SOURCE OF INFORMAI ION OF FBI, MIAMI, AND HAS NOW BEEN

APPRISED THAT MORALES WAS PAID INFORMANT OF THAT OFFICE. HE IS

AL ARE IHAT MORALES AND ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ HAVE BEEN LIAISON C

CONTACTS OF LEGAL

BUI

HAVE

ER

BEEN PAID

V-13

REC5 / 85

CARACAS OFFICE.

T-I087

END PAGE ONE

NOV 22.1976

Answered

тектуре

10

DEC

1976

NOV 15 1976

Are copies made.

for review at FBIHQ by

ESCA. neg. / 12/0/11

CONFINIAL SECRET,

NH 50953

Do01d: 32306911

Page 2

---

## Page 3

#D

PACE TVONCARACAIEN

• L

SECRET

AMBASSADOR, HAS NEVERTHELESS ASKED THAI LEGAT PROVIDE

BUREAU WITH FOLLOWING LIST OF NAMES AND REQUEST BUREAU TO ADVISE

WHAI, IF

PA ST :

ANY

RELATIONSHIP THE FBI MAY HAVE HAD WITH THEM IN THE

1u)

/ ORLAND.BY

BOSCHRAVILA

XOPL ANDO EAR TO NAS QUEZ

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE

V FREDD

VeL UGO:

VenezuelA

• HER NAN RICARDO

OZ ANO

X LUIS

XPOSADA

CARRILES

* FRANCISE

UNEZ

NR

X CEL SAXOL EDO

1(4)

AMBASSADOR

IS PARTICILARLY CONCERNED ABOUT REPORTED STORIES

AP PEAR ING

IN "MIAMI HERALS" IDENTIFYING RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE

AS FORMER

AGENT WHEREAS

CIA STATION CHIEF HAS NO SUCH

INFORMATION. M

(U)

LiCITED 24-4420, HASSE LIDERIES.

BI

CONFIRXNTIAH

SECRET

CC-intel

19 30953 DocId: 32306911 Page 3

---

