# 124-90006-10007

## Page 1

124-90006-10007

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90006-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-77731-800

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/27/1964

3

DOMINCAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

PAULINO SIERRA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE

v9.1

NH 50953

6

DocId: 32322794

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MP Co1 - 63:

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

" ROUTINE

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

Dominica a Revolutidhär 4

Activities

COUNTRY DOMENICAN REPUBLIC /NATTIT/CUBA/CENTRAI AMIRICA

TDCS -3/5889395

DISTR. 27 MAY 1964

DATE OF LATE MAY 196%

INFO.

- SUBJECT

PLOTTIG EY JOHN ABBES GARCIA, FORMER DOMINICAN INTELL

GENCE OFFICIAL

AND ARISMENDI. TRUJILLO AGAINST THE

ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXTINS

MASCIA

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SPAIN, NADRID (22 MAY 1064)

(ER)

REF

8390.

IN

89005

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINCO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SOURCE

DATE 125/44 BY SP&MAC /GEL FIELD REPORT NO.

ratise

AND

APPRAISAL; AN ORELGIAL SPANISH SERVICE WITH PARAS. g

AND 3 FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS

A MEMBER OF THE DOMINICAN DOLE COMMUNITI

IN MADRID".

APPRAISAL$ 3°

lace 4 97-4133 (MRR)

Copy to NY LUFO SUMIT

by routing slip for Legals

+05712101068101

& Info

action newco (al ter

Durin

i con de

3-04

Ini

JOH

ARCIA IS INVOLVED IN PLANNING A COUP AGAINST THE DOMINICAN GOVER

MENT, IN THIS CONNECTION, HE IS "USING

ARISMEND

TRUJILLOMOLINA, BUT IS PERPECTIE

WILLING TO SACRIFICE HIM IF NECESSARY.

(HEADQUARTERS. COMMENE:

ABBES, WHO WAS CHITE

FILED

THE DOMINICAN SERVICIO DE ENTELIGENCIA MILITAR

(SIM' ENDER THE LATE DOMINICAN DICATOS

WAS LAST REPORTED TO BE LIVINE IN A SUBURB OF PARIS. .

SISTINE TRULE ARTIS

GUATEMALA FROM SPAIN IN LATE AFRIL 1964 AND WAS REPORTED AT THAT TIME IO BE PLANNING

STAY IN GUATEMALA INDEFINITELY.).

ABBES WANTS SOMEONE TO ATTEMPT A COUP IN ORDER TO SET OFF A PANIC REATION

AMONG MEMBERS OF THE TRIUMVIRATE AND THEIR

SUPPORTERS, AT WHICH TIME A GROUP

OF SENION

DOMINICAN ARMY OFFICERS WILL TAKE OVER KEY POINTS AND ARREST MEMBERS

OF THE GOVERNMENT

105-7/131

This material contains information affecting the National Defense

of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title

8, U.S.O. Secs. 793 and 704, the transmisston or revelation of which in any manner

person is probibited by law.

SECRET

CIA HAS RECOAJECTION 745 - 77731

Encluded from automatic

STATE/INR

DIA

ARMY/ ACSI

DECLAOSIR

TON AND/OR

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

dow siding and

deplonification

FBI

INS

DD/I…__REPC-ECLANT

XEROX CUS NOCHRENT

6 4 JUN 9

12A 5

1964

EXCEPT FOR thE bRACES

SLO PASR 3921-98 (JEK) 79 N

4 1964

UNRECORBED

UNRECORDED

NH 50953 DocId: 32322794 Page 2

---

## Page 3

_coplesnade

Ke

Martia

1.6.28J5G di

for revicuat-JIHQ by

HSCA TEST CLASSICATION - DISSEMINATION. CONTROLS.

(See BufiLe #02-117290) SECRET

NO. FOREION DISSEM

90006-10007

4,49

. 9

94T9S -3/582,395

IN

PAGE 2

S902

AND CHE

ARMED FORCES WHO REFUSE TO GO ALONG WITH THE COUP.

PATRE ALE SEVERAL MUNDRED NERCENARIES GATHERED IN GUATEMALA, NICARAGUS

CELLE COMMENE: IN EARLY MARCH 1964 AN OFFICIAL SPANISM SERVICE

IN TOGS- 3/206,000 TRAT ARISMENDI TRUJILLO WAS REPORTEDLY PLANNING TO RECRUIT MERCE

ARIEE I FONDERAS, NIGAMACUA, AND GUATEMALA AND TRANSFORT, THEM TO MATTI FOR AN INVAS

TON DE INO DOMINICAN BUFUELIO WHEN AN AGREED SIGNAL FROM DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS

Guaterials Nites:

IN TRE DOMNICAN REPUBLIC WAS RECEIVED.

A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE IN GUATEVIA PERRE

Nie Briana

TED

OLINA, EROTHER DE

ARISMONDL Y

PEDR

LEONICOLAS, THE SON OF PEDRO, AND FAULTIO

SILAR.

ARTINEZ

A CUBAN EXILE

NO% IN GUATEMALA, HAVE TALKED OF LEAVING GUATEMALA FOR NICARAGUA TO

TACT MANUE

LEADER. OF THE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION MOVIMIENTO DE RECIPERO

Memberoi

M CaRaoJa

ACION REVOLVC IONARTA (MEN - MOVINNI FOR REVOLUTIOMARY NSCOVERY),

TO DISCUSS THE COEAN

SITUATION® THE

TRUSTLLOS WOULD

THEN TRAVEL TO FAMI TO ORGANIZE 2,000 MEN WHO ARE

WILLING TO AID

THE CUBAN EXT LOS IN AN INVASION ATTENPE OF CUBA, SOURCE ADDED THAL

APPINE MAS ASKED ARISMENDI TRUSTILO SEVERAT. TIMES TO CET IN TOUCH WITH FIM.

ACCORDING

TO PRONG TRUVILLO ME IS SURE THAT ME CAN COUNT ON AT TRASI 2, 000 MEN AND THAT PROBABLY

HE CAN RECRUIT MONE.

L THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNENT WILL SOON ASK ARISMENDI IO IRAVE GUATEMALA, AS 1

RESULE OF A RIQUEST RECEIVID FROM THE DOMINICAN FOREIGN MINISTRY, ARISMENDI WILL TEEN

TRI TO ENTER NICARAGUA OR HAITI, NEITHER OF WHICH WILL GRANT HIM A VISA. ARISMENDI

WILE TREY RECUEN TO SPAIN. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ON I APRIL 1964 THE NICARAQUA

CLASIECATOS CRYER CONTROIS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

"FORMA 1K-1

1-63

s2y,

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

siti

MFG.

2-63

(15-20-44-47)

CONTINUATION OF DES INFORMATION REPORT

NH 50953 DocId: 32322794 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS =3/582,395

IN

PAGE

8990đ

89005

GOVERIMUNE REFUSED TO GRANT ARISMENDI A RESIDENCE VISA. HOWEVER,

AN OFFICIAL SPA ISM

SERVICE

ORDED IN TDOS-3/575,900 THAT MAITIAN PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER WOULD CLOSE

HIS EXES TO AI

PLOTTING BY ARISMENDI IN MAITI AND THAT HE WOULD EVEN SUPPLY HAITIAN

MERCENARIES IN RETURN FOR TWO MILLION DOLLARS DEPOSITED IN A BANK OF HIS, DUVALTER'S,

50 SEE TDOS 3/580,775 AND TDOS- 3/575, 900 FOR ADDITIONAI INFORMATION ON THE ACTIVI

TIES OF THE TRUSTILOS REGARDING AN OVERTHROW OF THE DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT.

É. FIELD DISSIM: STATE, ARMI, NAVI, AIR (SANTO DOMINGO, GUATEMALA CITY, MANAGUE,

PORI-AU-PRINCE), CINCSO, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

THIS MATERIAL REQUIRES

SPECIAL CLASSIFICATION

PRECEDLIES. REFER TO SAC

LETTER 62-42 (G) DATED

8-7-624

CLASSIRCATISE CRIETON CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FORM 1K-1

1-63

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

MFG. 2-63

(15-20-44-47)

CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

NH 50953 DocId: 32322794 Page 4

---

