# 124-10222-10145

## Page 1

(124-10222-10145

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10222-10145

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-109

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1964

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MRR, ANTI-CUBAN GUERRILLAS, PHOTOS, AFTER ATTACK,

SUGAR MILL, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

V9.1

INH 50953

DocId: 32298369

Page 1

---

## Page 2

HON

POI

IN FO

TION

REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

b are satandar all becting the National Detente ol the Walted suates ustir to tates or to tapionago Fas The

#, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unbuthorized person is prohibited by las

S-E-C-R-E"T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Bri minte

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

hotographs of the abo Cruz Sugar

MilI in Pilon, Oriente Province,.

after the Attack of 13 May 1964

DATE DISTR.

CSLT-3/717,274

30

June

1964

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

QD13-50055

D-AAP-06300

72zy

DATE OF

13 May 196L

INFO.

PLACE 8

Spain, Madrid

DATE ACQ. (10 June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

official Spanish service. (5)

1. Available in the CIA Graphics

Register,

under numbers CIA 990556

through CIA 990562, are seven

photographs of the Cabo

Cruz sugar

mill in Pilon, Oriente Province, which were taken after

the

attack

of 13 May 1964 by commandos directed

by Manuel Artime and anti-

Castro guerrillas infiltrated into that area.

2.

The photographs were made from original negatives kept in the

archives

of El Mindo and Revolucion.

Distribution of Photographs (7) : OCR

CIA Graphics Register:

(Direct)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

State: (Retention)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

OCR

DIA:

(Retention)

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION

IN THiS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS

Im 1-26-98

MKH 2-6-98

_copies made

SID/KSR

3-3148

for review at FBIHQ by

JFK

MSCA 3.14:78

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/3/54/_BY_

(J51C)

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

97-4133

Excluded from auto

dachanileation

STATE

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

I&VS

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

I NAVY

I AIR

INSA

XANY

OCR

FBI: 2

RB

NEORMATION

BERIXED ORIGINAL-RETAIA

Cations

50953

DooId: 32298369

Page 2

---

