# 124-10206-10465

## Page 1

124-10206-10465

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10465

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-154

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SJ

DATE: 01/24/1967

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, DIAZ, NINO, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32291189

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTECEITI DEBIYED TROU

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-15-2023

BX: E54493142

SEGRET

1/24/67

1 - Mr. Nasca

áirtel

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLACO ICATION AND/OR,

HELLASE UF GIA INFORMATION

To:

SAC, Ban Juan

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FoR BRACKETS

MKA 2-6-98

From:

Director, FBI (07-4133) (105-100423)

i decisit

NOVINIENTO DE RICUPERACION

7/20/81

REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR)

TX1.

IS - CUBA

REASON-ICINE

RA - CUBA

DAT OR REVIEW

NEUIRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

1/.2418

EJERCITO DE LIBERACION CUBANO

(CUBAN ARMY OF LIBERATION)

(ELC)

(HEADED BY HIGINIO "NINO" DIAZ ANE)

Claya seine ce

Declasshy on 040h

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Bosulet 1/10/67, with enclosure.

Attached for each recipient

1/19/67 captioned raul W. Pelegrina.

is copy of CIA memorandure

(U)

In vow of the nature of this information and the

request or the pepartment; expeditious ana preterred attention

must be civen this natter.

MAILED 25

JAN 2 4 1967

COMM = FBI

San Juan innediately furnish by airtel with LaM

attached results of investigation conducted to date parti

cularly the information furnished by Pelegrina.

Handle by

airtel unless urgency of situation demands more expeditious

attention, *(u)

Enclosure

REG 22

Tolson

DeLoach

Mobr

Wick

Casper

Calloban -

Conrad .

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

T'avel

Trotter Li

Tele. Room

7 FEB:

Holmes

Gandy

-: M13m1

(Enclosure)

New York (Enclosure)

-

Newark (Enclosure)

Chicago. (Enclosure)

159

97-1133-

17. JAN 27 190/

VHN : JS

(14)

EX-108.

3-5-98

5668 SLO/RSR

(JFK)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

196.

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

NH 50953

Doc1d: 32291189 Page 2

15

8577

AD (2)

UNREC COPY. ETAST

---

## Page 3

SERIALUNG

Airtel to SAC, San Juan

RE:

MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR)

97-4138

(U)

(0)

NOLE:

At request of Department we are conducting investigation

In Captioned matter which includes allegation that Nino Diaz,

anti-Castro leader, has formed new anti-Castro organization,

the

ELC, the purpose of which is to equip a force of some 200 to 300

to infiltrate Cuba and bring about the overthrow of Castro.

Raul Pelegrina is furnishing information to our San Juan office

in this matterand has previously contacted CIA concerning it.

The CIA memo 1/19/67 reports information CIA received from

and Paraguay in Puerto Rico are attending meetings of this group

ind are aegedy supporting it possibly with material support

lA told Pelegrina to turnish this data to San Juan Office

Pelegrina, Indicated he had been in touch with our San Juan Office

(U)

130E6

, SECRET.

NN 70953

DocId: 32291189 Page 3

---

