# 124-10164-10277

## Page 1

(124-10164-10277

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASS45S NATION RECORDS ACT OF 199

I ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IPENTIICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10164-10277

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-8307X

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/26/1991

PAGES:

3622

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSA, EVID, MAINTAINED, FBI, LAB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT. PHOTOGRAPH

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/24/1999

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

BULKY BOX 2 OF 8, INC CONRAD, I. W. FILES, 4 VOL PRESIDENT

COMMISSION,2 VOL LHO INTERNAL SECURITY-R, 1 VOL LAB RPT, MISC

DOCUMENT

NH 50953 DoeId: 32168300

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL PORA NO, 10

101010*

M.T-1407 EDITION

-GAO GEN. ALO. NO, 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

62-109060

Bux 2

8307X

Folson

Belmon: i

TO

Mr. W. C. SullivanV

10I5-GAROLONDSR

N) DeL guch

"avst

Trotter

FROM

Tele. Room

Holmes .

Gandy ....

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INTERNAL SECURITY • RUSSIA • CUBA

I. Sore

Imizand

in New York City:

On 4-15-64 Inspector Malley received a call from J. Lee Rankin

It wild be noted that on

New York concerning their knowledge of Oswald.

Mr. Rankin made reference to the report of Special Agent

Thomas P. Estep dated 12-18-63 at Cincinnati, Ohio.

that the report referred to a meeting which occurred at Wheeling,

Mr. Rankin noted

rest virginia, on 12-8=63.

"Contidential"

Mr. Rankin noted that the report was marked

and he wanted to know if, in talking to CP people, 1t

would be satisfactory for him to ask questions concerning the details

of the meeting without interfering with any of our operations.

New

York City, public relations man for the CP, gave a talk dealing

with the assassination of President kennedy. the information, while

helptul, does not add anything of particular significance to the Oswald

Investigation and is generally self-serving to the CP.

On 4-15-64 SAC Mason advised that at the particular meeting

there were six other CP members present with Mr, Johnson. Three of

symbol number informants of

the Cincinnati

that these particular informants cover an area in West Virginia and".

Office.. SAC Mason advised

Ohio where there is CP activity and, hence,

these informants are valuable

I to the coverage of the Ce establishment not only by the Cincinnati Office

but by our Cleveland and Pittsburgh Offices. Furthermore, according.

sAC Mason, the particular informant who reported the meeting,

CI 104-S,

is the only informant who is quallfied to attend the state Board

Ohio

.. Mr!

. "Mason, noted" that is Johnson is questioned

concerning this meeting they will obviously check for a source and

could uncover one or all of the informants involved thereby seriously

jeopardizing our coverage

Apa a sister"

MT +

Belmont

1

1

Mr + Rosen

Mr o

Sullivan

MT +

Malley

Mr =

Branigan

1

NT •

Lenthan

71203401

ALD INTORNATION CONTAINED

469555803 Ralfe

46-43 Fr

4/11/69

(57K5

WAB: jdd*

(7).

to belo

MH 50953 DocId: 32168300

• Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-T08

DA LARGE I POZ EDITION

05A DEN.

REG. NO. IT

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. M. Ca.Sull1vazug?.'

Belmont

*Mohr

405

Celetha

conrad

A DeLgach

DATE

4-15 64

FROM

*: Mr. W. A. Bia

ATL INTORZATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

HERET IS UNCLASSITLED

13 359 103 Rd

DATE

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA • CUBA

JFK

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Candy

On 415-64 Inspector Malley received a call from J.. Lee

Rankin

in New York City.

It will be noted that on 4-17-6 the Commission

contemplates interrogating functionaries of the Connunist Party (CP)

1n

New York concerning theit knowledge of Oswald,

Mr. Rankin made reference to the report of Special Agent

Thonas P. Estep dated 12-18-63:

at cincinnati, Oblo

Mr. Rankin noted

that the report referred to a meeting which occurred at Wheeling,

West Virginia, on 12-8-63.

Mr. Mankin noted that the report was

"Confidential" and he wanted to know 1f, in talking to CP people, 1t

would

be satisfactory for him to ask questions concerning the details

of the meeting without interfering with any of our operations

The report in question contains information furnished by

Confidential Informant CI 104S who advised that Arnold Johnson of

New york city, public relations man for the cr, gave a talk dealing

with the assassination of, President Kennedy. The information, while

helpful, does not add anything of particular significance to the Oswald

investigation and is generally self-serving to the CP.

On 4-15-64 SAC Mason advised that at the particular meeting

there were six other CP members present with Mr. Johnson.

Three of these

were

symbol

number

that

Informants

the Cincinnati

- these particular informants cover an area in West

Office. SAC Mason advised

Virginta" and

Ohio where there is CP activity and, hence, these informants are Kaluable

I to the coverage of the CP establishment not only by the Cincinnati Office

but by our Cleveland and Pittsburgh Offices. Furthermore, according

to SAC Mason, the particular informant who reported the meeting;

, CI 104-5,

1s the only

informant who is qualified to attend the State Board

meetings of the

concerne this decing, they will obviously check or a source and

•"Mr? Mason" noted that If Johnson Is questioned

this

could uncover one or all of the informants Involved thereby seriously

Jeopardizing our

coverage

Mr. Belnont

in 66g

Mr. Rosen

-rei

Mr . . Sullivan

1.

Mr. Malley

in .B1

Mr •

Branigan

Lenthan

WAB:jdd

(7)

to Beli

264/17/641

He D 000h01

(19)

Bangandien

Janohne

16090 Daue

---

## Page 4

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROL:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIDICATION CULLE

DATE 00-15-2023

BY: F51M93442

Int Reply, Please Refer i

File No.

117771

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE "E M

Te it cape gen

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

peas

in ta 3 cling.)

ALL INFORMARICN CONFAZ

HERCIN IS CLOSITIUSE

HENG SHORN OTHRA

WASHINGTON 25. D, C.

1442-97621

11:20 a.m.

November 26, 1063

MEMORANDUM FOR

ME. TOLSON

ME. BELMONT

8-7-92 RF: JFK NR. MOER

MR GEN

mained e

MR. DE LOACH DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

VIE. EVANS

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

MA. ROSEN

IN THIS DOCUMENT

ME. SULLIVAN EXUPT FoR Brakket

EmineN 4-18-97

9803 280/9ck 25:

Mr. John McCone, Director of CIA, called and stated he just

wanted to be mare la elsted ClA la sons all the help they postly 1g-14

can in connection with the investigation of the situation in Dallas. He said

he Inowa the importance the President places on this investigation and

stated the President had asked him personally whether CIA le giving the

FBI full support; he sald yes but just wanted to be sure.

I assured Mr. McCone we had the very best support we could

possibly expect from CIA. He then stated we could call upon him for

anything and I said we would do that.

Mr. McCone further stated he was delighted the President

called on me to make the report. I indicated the purpose of our report

as well as the areas it la to cover.

Me. McCone mentioned the fact that CIA has operational

sources in Merico Clly and said, il the Bureau wanted to use them, they

shoald be handled very carefully because they involve high-level people.

He stated he and ir. Papich had discussed this. I accured him that the

FBI understando thig:

d advised Mr. Megone that Deputy Attorney Goneral Nicholas

deB.

Katzenbach warhandling this matter in the bepartment; that when

the Bureau finishes the report, Mr. Katzenbach will go over it very cara-

USCEIED • COMSVO

1051)

LitT

50953

Doold: 32160300

Page 1

---

