# 124-10274-10064

## Page 1

124-10274-10064|

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1366-1405

page 61

62-116395

2 - MI.

J.

A. Mintz

(1 - MI. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr.

W. R. Wannall

1

MI o

w. n. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

Jamary 29, 1976

your request and is not for dissemi.

I'mi or to official proceedings by

¿closed to unauthorized person.

U. S. SENATE SELECT CAMITICE IN

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL, OPERATIONS ITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGELCE ACTIVIIIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated

January 20, 1976.

Item 1 of referenced letter requested aceess

This document is prepared in response to

nation outside your Comm:'

your Committee and the coit:.

nel without the express approval of the EBLa

In all material furnished to the fBI "by the CIA from

& snurce known to the FBI as 'COlGSt and wan tras handled

as a snurce under the heading 'racial extremist matters.' "

It sas indicated in Iten I that CIA had already given

the Chunittee Staff access to the material in its

possessinn relating to this snurce.

In view of the Third Agency considerations

present, this request was discussed on Januaty 23, 1976,

by a representative of this Bureau with Mr. Halter Elder

ot the ClA Review Staff. Mr. Elder advised that ClA

had no record of "COLGS" but that it did have information

concerning "CINGS," the cryptonyn for an individual who

was a source of CIA. During the perind 1970-1971, CIA

JARLISAD

furnished to the FBI approximately 30 memoranda containing

Information from "CINGS," According to Elder, the SSC

has seen everything which CIA has in its files concerning

"CINGS," including the approximate 30 mentanda which CIA

Assoc. Dir. -

-had furnished to the FBI.

Elder expressed the preference

Dep. AD i_that this Bureau respond in the referenced request by

Admin.

referring the SSC back to CIA.

Comp. Syst. —

Ext, Affalrs

FBI files contain a single reference to "CInGs,"

fi. I that being a CIA mennrandum dated May 17, 1971 indicating

ident in "'CINGS" En be a CIA source.

Inspection -

Intoll. -

Loboratory -

Plan. & Evel. - SFP :1hb|hb

ORIGINAL AND

COPY TO AG

Spoc. Inx. —

Tratning-

(8)

Logal Goun, —

Tolophone Rm. -

Director Sac'y =

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNITE. Jite

?.ir.o

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

PLAi

Tie 20014780-80-800

---

