# 124-90138-10038

## Page 1

124-90138-10038

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90138-10038

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-5-8916

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO : USAF

TITLE:

DATE: 08/08/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VICENTE GIRONA JULBE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH

50953

DocId:32337769

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL EBI INEDRUATION CONTALIED

HEREIN IS UNCLASBIZIED

SECRET

RECEIVED: FROM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

L'

AUG 9

CIA SOF

TO: *

Diragter

of Special Investigations

Insector

• General

USAT

Attention:

for.

Gilbort R. Levy

8 AUG 1968

Director

Federal Bureau of

Attention:

Mr. B. J. Fapich

FROM:

Deputy Director,

Plane

SUSTICT: Vicente GIRONA /Julbe

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIPIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT

BRACKETS

KP 5-12-98

NATE CHECK

S1D/KSR

6-14-48

(JFK)

5668500

98a3ppeleti

CADR

12-19

Classified

This Agency vas recently In receiy of Information froma

Spanish sewieel on

Subjeat which may

Interest to the eddressees.

is as followe

Subject was born on 5 August 1910 in the Province of

Ceste on,

Spain;

the son of Miguel and Teresa,

then had a permanent residence in Monrovia, Liberia.

He carries & Spanish National Ilentity document

#36989661; place of issuance illegible. It is reported

that subject was formerly a Colonel in the American

Air Force but lost his retirement pension fron the

USAY because of his work as an Air Force instructor 1n

Venenuela during the reiga of Narcos Perez Jimenez.

Is divorced and has a son residing in Canado, also

pilor in the USAF.

char

Subject, who le presently residing in the Canary Inlands,

drew attention to himself then it wap revealed he carried

both Spanish and "North Americen"* passports. He appeared

to have plenty of money but lived alone and avoided all

social contact.

If there 10 any information on Subject in the files of

the addresses, it would be appreciated if it would be forwarded

to this Agency-

*This is beamed to nean valted states, but our report referred on

Une 10 3 18 6H PEC: 3262-5-896

8& AUG IQ 1961

1961

10

AUG

CS

CI 3/766,561

S+to CIA CU

8-17-61

BEC. 0X-113

SECEELS

NAT

top sec.

detain

HH 50953

DooId: 32337769

Page 2

---

