# 124-10225-10144

## Page 1

124-10225-10144

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10144

HQ

105-114543-IST NR 179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/16/1964

3

JURE, COMMUNIST INFILTRATION, EXILE GROUPS, US,

SUPPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENIS :

N9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32299364

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ON

EPO

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

This castorial contains information aflecting the Natlonal Defense of the United States withla the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 79%, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic REPORT NO.

CS-311/00614-64

SUSJECT

Comments Regarding Cuban

Exile Activities

DATE DISTR.

16 JulY 1964

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

¿ DARE OF 2 June 1964

INFO.

PLACE,&

England, London

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

-(JF19

"'"+0012092181

Pon:1454300408)

DATE ACQ. (19 June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

POURCES An official British service,

fron a regular source, probably

JFK

reliable, in private conversation with a Cuban exile who is

independent of any Cuban exile organization.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

The general opinion among Cuban exiles is that the United States

will not encourage exile groups to mount a major assault on Cuba

until after the United States elections.

70 6

United States, the exiles say,

is providing a steady flow o

aid to the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR, Move

ment for Revolutionary Recovery), which is led by Manuel Artime

Some exiles claim that the attack by the MRE on Puerto

Pilon in May 1964 was launched from the Dominican Republic.

Thr

is no evidence that Artime is receiving support from the Venezu

Government.

His failure to establish personal contact with the

Administration (Venezuelan) during his visit to Caracas between

22-27 May 1964 has provoked criticism in government circles.

asiLlusionment with the MRhis said to be caused by Artime's

failure to establish himself as the undisputed leader of the

militant exile forces.

Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras is said to be giving

financial support to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, paramilitary leader of

Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SENE,

National Front of the Escambray), the Movimiento Revolu-

Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the People),

ánd Alpha-66.

The purpose of the subsidy is to prevent the

allance irom forming close political or @gerational ties witr

JURE.

According to Cuban exiles in Miami, JURA is politically to

the left of all other Cuban exile parties.

Some exiles claim

several Communists, acting as agents for the Castro régime

have succeeded in infiltrating JURE.

105-114543

NH 50953

DocId: 32299364

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DATE OF 2 June 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

England, London

TATE ACQ. (19 June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

10111091001

ToN+04494304606

PURCES

An official British service.

from a regular source, probably

reliable, in private conversation with a Cuban exile who is

independent of any Cuban exile organization.

1. The general opinion among Cuban exiles is that the United States

will not encourage exile groups to mount a major assault on Cubi

until after the United States elections.

2.

3.

The United States, the exiles say, is providing a steady flow of

aid to the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria MRR, Move -

ment for Revolutionary Recovery), which is led by Manuel Artime

Some exiles claim that the attack by the MRR on Puerto

Pilon in May 1964 was launched from the Dominican Republic.

There

is no evidence that Artime is receiving support from the Venezuelan

Government.

His failure to establish personal contact with the

Administration (Venezuelan) during his visit to Caracas between

22-27 May 1964 has provoked

criticism in government circles.

disillusionment with the MRR is said to be caused by Artime's

failure to establish himself as the undisputed leader of the

militant exile forces.

Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras is said to be giving

financial support to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo,

paramilitary leader of

the Alliance of the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SENE,

* Second National Front of the Escambray), the Movimiento Revolu

cionario del Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary

Movement of the People),

and Alpha-66. The

purpose of the subsidy is to prevent the

Alliance from forming close political or operational ties with

According to Cuban exiles in Miami, JURE is politically

the left of all other Cuban exile parties.

Some exiles ciaim

that several Communists,

acting as agents

for the Castro regime,!

have succeeded in infiltrating JURE.

ce:

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT •

CINCSO

"Note: Field distribution indicatad by "#":)

NEOR!

LON

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN DISSEM

AIR

NSA

o7 GROUP

Excluded from

(NAVY

I&NS

REPORT

OCR

INFORMATION REPOR

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIFIED

108-10

NH 50953 DocId: 32299364 Page 3

---

