# 124-90092-10009

## Page 1

| 124-90092-10009

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90092-10009

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-80750-952

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

[Restricted]

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1949

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: LET

v9.1

NN 50953

DooId: 32330764

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

May 4, 1949

is 200m wept for the bike el

HELLAS: UF DIA IN ORMATION

1-22-98K

PERSONAI AND CONFIDENTIAI

AIR MATI

TO:

Mr o

jenn Ho Bethel

c/o. The Commissioner

Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Ottawa, Ontario, Canada

10-79

FROM:

Director, FBI

SUBJECT:

APPOINTMENT OF CIA

BENED NA

92E21258

10502800823

iway

ETAISON REPRESENTATIVE TO OTTAWA

Reference is

made to your lette

dated March 28, 1949 wherein you

hat the RCMP had received infornation indicating that the Central.

Intelligence Agency desires to place a representative in Ottawa. They re-

quested any comments the Bureau night be able to make relative to this matter.(

As you know, the Bureau, of course, can make no objection to the

CLASSIFIED

DECLAS

(U)

establishment of such

liaison.

For your confidential infornation, however,

intormation has been received at the seat of Government thaisa ClA laisor

ropresentative will be placed in Canadal ithin the next few weeks.

o1 CIA have confidentially advised the Bureau's Liaison Section that

the RCMP and related organizations They state, however,

nada are mize the is mill take joars to build mao they c suan

action must be taken in view of CIA's Jurisdiction in foreign cirolesy.

*For your further information,

presently considering one (Samuel Herman Hortong

It has been ascertained that CIA 1s

Ca former Bureau agent

(U)

now an employee of the Office of Special Operations, CIA, for the position

(U) in question Horton enterod the Bureau as a Special Agent on January 15,

1940 hole was assigned to the Richment and Cincinnati Offices and was trans-

ferred to the Seat of Government on June 28, 1943. ' He resigned on December

17, 1944 to accept a position with the office of Strategic Services.

It has additionally been ascertained that William K.

Parvey,- also

a former

Bureau agent

and now a minor official of CIA, has recömnended to his

(0)

(Canadays that miy a forem Spotal demi or the fBI should be placed 1a

that he will have interest in cornon with you and thereby gain your

CC - Foreign Service Desk

CĐD: mk

_copies made

Ior revlew at TBIRQ by

ESCAPe lOT request.

RECORDED -

(See Bufile #02- 127290)

Dic mer 2/10178

B

76

JUN 27. 1949

HH 50953

Doc1d:32330764

Page 2

7.6.

ORIGINAL

79

---

## Page 3

confidence and use you as an entree with the RCMP and

other, excellent Bureau

ontacts The recommendation was also specifically made that "due to you

peculiar personality" Horton should be the new Canadian

representative

because of his so called "ability to handle people," meaning of course,

he is expected to cultivate and properly handle you for the benefit of cIA.

It is therefore quite evident that CIA personnel are not only unfairly

judging you, but also have every intention of using you as a "stepping-Stone

for their own designs.

(U)

This infornation is being pointed out to you so that you may be

completely aware of the situation. You should be particularly alert to prevent

being used

as any such "stepping stone" for CIA or Horton. CIA should develop

Its own contacts without depending upon the excellent relationships already

established between the FBI and Canadian

Sificial channels Only that Liaison

necessary for the coordination of domestic and foreign matters is necessary and

it should be most circumspect.

2-

HH 50953

DocId: 32330764 Page 3

---

