# 124-90140-10037

## Page 1

124-90 140-10037

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90140-10037

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 97-4606-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI'

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/26/1961

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GREGORIO DAMIAN MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

50953

13

DocId: 32338080 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSITICATION AUTHCRITY DERIVED ERCU:

EBI AUTONATIC LEELASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 03-20-2023

EX: 204338442

SEC

Llaison

1 - Leavitt

•97-4606

Date:

To:

CIA HAS NO OBIECTION TO

DECLASSIFCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF LIA INFORMATION

COPTES MADE

0-7-78 PAPICH

EN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR

OVH

BRACKETS

KP 5-18-98

HSCA RE*

ST PBHO BY

(SEX: BUFLE #62-1172902

REQUEST.

(u)

From:

December 26, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

GREGORIO DAMIAN MARTINEZ

REGISTRATION ACT - ARGENTINA

reclassi

2119

DACR

Subject:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENEIN IS UNCHASSIFLED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

*June

Reference Is made to your communication dated

29,

1961,

captioned "Gregorio D. Martinez," your reference

CSCI-3/765,875€

10)

Enclosed

1s

one copy of the report of Speclal Agent

luther Coulter, dated November 22, 1961, at San Antonio, Texas,

captioned as above.

This Bureau has no objection to your furnishing

material disclosed in the enclosed report to your Argentine

source provided

this

the information

BY COURIER SVC

1 DEC2

COMM, -FB

He would appreciate recelving any data your source

is in a position to furnish regarding the nature

of material

subject is furnishing the newspaper "pregon. "CU) Can 74-18

Enclosure

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan .

Tavel

Trotter

'ele, Room

ngram

Gandy -7

1 - Rio de Janeiro (Enclosures - 2)

1 - San

1

Antonio

(97-81)

(TPH)

- foreign Liaison Unit

PEC-36 97-46a06-12

NOTE TO LEGAT, RIO DE JANEIRO:

Enclosed for Legat, Rio de

1s a copy of

the

above-mentioned report dated November 22, 1262, at San Antonio,

and its

accompanying evaluation memorandum, which is self-explana-

tory.

matter is for your information; however, you shou

remain alert through your sources

for any data concerning the sub-

association with the newspaper "Pregon."

JS/TWWAS ROPM (8)

SEE NOTE ON. YELLOW PAGE TWO

STOGET

MAIL ROOM.

HH 50953

Doc1d:32338080 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Director

Central Intelligence Agency 02(U)

NONE:

Letter classiriedse

cot me as containe dete

obtained from a cla communicationi

1961, CIA advised

subject was supplying "Pregon,

material for publication.

The newspaper was described as being

anticommunist.

CIA possessed no additional information on subject

or "Pregon" and requested data regarding subject possessed by this

Bureau for passage to the Argentine service](S)u)

We had no information to furnish CIA upon receipt of

their request and initiated inquiry to identify subject.

as we have now developed background data concerning him

furnishing same to CIA for passage to their source.. Also since

we are requesting them to furnish us with any additional data they

develop it is considered desirable to allow CIA to furnish this

In this manner

we will be assured

that the source who is apparently in a position

to know of subject's association with "Pregon" will have the results

of our inguiry.

legat, however, should and is being alerted to in

stant matter.

Evaluation memorandum is not being aisseminated with

report to CIA as CIA is the other Government agency mentioned

in the details of the report (

hat

SE

NI

REBELL

HH 50953

Do01d:32336080

Page

---

