# 124-90135-10265

## Page 1

124-90135-10265

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

. 6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90135-10265

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-82298-100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: USAF

FROM:

USAF

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/07/1961

1

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

LET

v9.1

HH 50953

17

DocId: 32336870

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRE

DEPARTMENT

R FORCI

, iEADQUARTERS

UNITEL

ED STATES AIR FU:

WAS

TINGTON

57 D.C.

REPLY TO

ATTN OF:

AFISI-6A

(SUBECT: (U) BlOy Gutierrez Menoyo

9/15712

BLONDE IN FULL

7 MAR 1961

HELEASE IN PART

To: Honorable J. Edgar Hoover

TOTAL DENIAL

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

U. So Department of Justice

Washington 25, D. Co

Received from

MAR 9

1961

OSI

JỐC

Dear Sir

1.

Reference is made to your report, subject as above, #105-2118, dated

1? February 1961, which reflected that Subject was located at the Alien

Detention Facility, McAllen, Texas.

ALL FIR FORCE (OST) INFO

DELASSiFIED PER THEIR 9/15/98

INfO

2o Recently, CIA advised this Headquarters that, according to an official

Portuguese service,/Subject had contacted one Lindsey Ling, aka: Ling

Lind Sey, DPOB: 12 March 1919, in Chekiang, China, in late August 1960

in Santa Maria, the Azores.

Ling currently resides in Madrid where he

manages a restaurant allegedly owned by another unidentified Chinese wh

reportedly has supplied clothing to US personnel at Lajes Base in the

Azores. Ling is one of several Chinese subjects who are suspected of

using their business ventures as a cover for espionage or other illegal

1961

activities. The CIA report also reflects that one Theodor Heinz Wiener,

who had represented the clothing firm in the Azores, was reportedly

arrested there in December 1958 on suspicion of espionage,.

of September 1960, reportedly in Bermuda, where Ling was planning to go

to determine the feasibility of establishing another restaurant.

Jft 3.: It is requested that Subject be questioned concerning the nature and

extent of his association with Ling and other Chinese, and that this

office be advised of any information which may reflect espionage or

other illegal activities affecting USAF interests.

His possible associ-

ation with Wiener also should be explored.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Sincerely

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

"F. L. WELCH

I THIS DONE KI

S4198

Asst Chief, Counterintelligence, Division 1J.

REC 40 105-822 98-10

Directorate of Special. Investigations

UNIECORDED COPY FILED

The Inspector General ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

28 MAR TO: 1961.

ASSIFICU

DATE

.BX

SOS MAC GAT

JFK

MAR

17.1961

MAR 23 1961

SECRET

Ruse

105071298

HN 50953

Doc1d:32336870

Page 2

---

