# 124-10111-10141

## Page 1

124-10111-10141.

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ANK ASSASSINATION SYSTEMI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10111-10141

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-1ST NR 457

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1965

- PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

WC, REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32155889

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSICICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED ERDI

EBI AUTOVATIC DEELASSIZICATION CULLE

DATE 05-15-2023

BY: F51M93442

EXPECTOR, +9+ (10302337580 EGRET

SAC& KNO (105-61205) (a0c)

HE IS

RENDIT

WRENE SHONA COIN Te

NICOLAS MICHATZOVICH MITROPANOV

can SAke

(00 :CV)

Cactusal mus 0AD4

22187

9/2579K

CLASSIFED BY 5468-SLO/de

DECLASSIFYON: 25X

6/15/65

176454.

Bocviet dated 4/30/65.

6/7/65g

MUKHAD STAN SOLOVISY, Translator,

Inatitute

of flodern

Languages, Incorporated,

1322 18th Street,

advined sA We SCOTT JANETT, JR. that during 1946-47

while

a Alaplaced parson at Saltsburg,

Auntria, he was the

or an anti-comunist publication colled

"Flame.

SOLOVERE

recalled

start or

that during this tina subjeet was on the

this Funtention

and contributed anti-comminist

artioles designed

to discourage displaced persons from

returning to Pianie.

SOLOVIEY coumented that the Rusalans

In the Soviet Sector made strong protesto to the Americans

regarding these publications

SOLOVIEY atated

that in about 1946 subject immigrated

to chile.

SOLOVIEV did not Inow subjeat prior to 294617

and knows nothing of his

background prior to this time.

SOLOVITY subsequently Immigrated to the U. S. and did not hear

of or from subjeat until about tuo years ago when he

corresponded

with the mubjeet.

During thia corgespondende

aubject anced him 1f be would

reconned that aubject cone to

the U

SalVIay told him it would not be easy but that he

would find a place.

SOLOVIRY

stated that

while subjeet us at the Univermity

after immigration to U. 3. and

of

fryland,

880g

he had

oceamion to mut and talk with subject,

about two your

At thia

time subjeet stated he had been snociated with the Undom

of Chile in rewarch work as

Professor of Thyaled

iso understood

that

subjeet

did research work

overinent

o1 Arua11

year In Braz11

and

would

spend three of

this

researche

FILED IN

ORIGINAL

(2 - Burenu

2

1

• Cleveland (105-9372)

чНЫ

(5)

SEXIET

162-109090 - IStNR after 457

NOT RECORDED

199 JUN 20 1965

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIMCATION AND/OR,

hELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

LitT

50953

DocIA: 32155080

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(U)

WFO 105-62250

SECKEL

SOLOVIEY again daw subject in March, 1965,

at

which time aubject atated he was vorkine in Cleveland.

Subject commented he enjoyed his work but was somewhat

remorseful that he is the oldest man in the project.

As a reault of his association with the subject,

SOLOVIEV was of the opinion subject is strongly

anti-communist; hated the communiet system and most certainly

would have no association or connection with organlaations

attempting to repatriate persons to the USSR.

He stated

he felt certain subject would report to the FBI any contacts

on approaches which might be made to hin by Soviet

intelligence personnel or otherise,

By way of background SOLOVIE wag

associated with

(CIA in Covert operations in. Washington, D,

". and overseas

for a period of about nine years since the 1950's.

however, no longer connected with CIA as hia contac has CAl (u)

expired and Els progran alecontinueds

He has reoently completed

translation of the

Warren Commiasion Report on the assassination of President

KENNEDY Into Hisstan in his present employment.

Th18

tronslation was not done for

the harren Countosion

NH 50953

Doold: 32155069

Page 3

---

