# 124-90089-10319

## Page 1

124-90089-10319

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90089-10319

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-344127-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

DOS

TITLE :

DATE: 12/01/1959

PAGES:

• 3

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32330284

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION ALTECEITE DEBIJED ERDI:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: 3043/98142

Nasca

BARRICH

18197

12-2/54

CLASSIFIED BY

5668S4/1SR

DECLASSIFY ON:

25.

÷20

Dolosch

MeGuire

W.0, Sullivan

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

Tainm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room-

Holloman

Gandy -

100-344122

SEXIET

Date:

To &

December le

1959

CIA L

MOBJECTION TO

DECLASANCATON AND/OR,

office of security

RELEASE DE CI IMPORMATION

Department of state

IN THIS DUOUWENT. EXCEPT

Frone

John Bagar Hoover, Director

KP 10-9-971

Subjecte

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASTERFER ROJAS

(SP8 ARGE 1513/90-JFK)

TUTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ALL INFORMATVON CONTAINED

REGISTRATION ACT • CUBA

HEREIN IS UNALASSIFIED

i BYSPOOJAL OMS

This will confirm information orally furnished

to Mro Charles E. Hammond, Department of states ur. William A.

nerverts, central

Intelligence Agencys Major H. C. Gole g

-(U)

Department of the Armys Commander Jonn spanko, Depariment

08

the Navys Mojor J, Bo Adams, Department of the Atr Forces

and sergeant Joseph Hemphill, The Joint Chiefs,

Mro Jo I, Winnich of this Bureau on November 28, 1959.

On November 27s 1959, James William Wollweber

advised our Atlanta Office that he had been approached bio

Gaylord saxton of Miami, Florida, to fly airplanes to Cura

and drop incendiories on the Cuban sugar orop. Wollwebet

stated that he and Sarion had been in the Atlante penio

Wollweber stated he was told by saxton

that the cuban who was recruiting pilote for this purpose

was Pedro suarea of Mimi, Florida. Wollwener inezcated

he received a call from santon to cone to miami on November -9s

1959, to make crrangements for a flight to cubo..

Records of the FBI Identification Division

show that Gaylord Miles Saxton, FBI Number 3198376,

has been arreated on numerous occastone in the past

on charges unich inolude felonious assaults careless

Ilying, Flying an unregistered aircraft,

creating o

disturbance, carrying & concealed weapon and conspiring

to smuggle aliens intoothesinited states.

In 1950 he

convicted on the latter charge and was sentenced to

years' imprisonments

our mami arrice advised ol

November 20g

2959,

tno one Pedro Surer Hernandez

VEN a bud: col( 16)

1 • Havana

EX-124

VREC 61

22,201.

AAG Jo

Walter veggiey by

Foreign Ilaison

Harm 0d plica

1950

NOTE STU

Donahoe to Belmont 11/30/5

me subject..

MAIL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT E

NN 50953 Do01d:32330284

Page 2

---

