# 124-90158-10069

## Page 1

124-90158-10069

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90158-10069

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-584-4735

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SJ

HQ

DATE: 09/05/1968

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

Restricted|

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, DIA

COMMENTS: AT; REFERRED TO DIA

v9.1

30933

DooId: 32340412

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ED-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

ILELSDIZICETICH ANTICELT DERIVED 12L21

EET AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATION CUIDE

DATE 06-12-2023

BY: 254493442

FBI

Date:

ISECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

9/5/68

Transmit the following inECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Via

AIRTEL

IN TAS DOCUMENT. oP to the bel

KP 2-0,48

MONTAIRER

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, SAN JUAN (109-44) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS-CUBA

(571 14/m

REFERENCES:

Bureau letter

to Bureau,

8/2/68.

211,326

147°

Classified by Mi TIPLE SOUPLE

Declassily on

OAOR,

Daly

SEE REFERRAL

117/844

SoTt o

tO

San Juan, 7/26/68; Miami letter

4-15-98

031185470551

ENCLOSURES:

CLASSIE

DEC

JFK)

• Enclosed are 10 copies for the Bukeau

and 4 copies

for Miami of an IHM dated and captioned as above.

The Bureay

1s requested to forward I information copy of LHM to Legat a

Santo Domingo.

3

hoes

Also enclosed for Bureau and Miami are one copy

each of Defense Intelligence Agency Information Report dated

7/7/68,

and entitled

For

"Storage of Supplies in Mona Island

Coordinator

by a Cuban Exile Group" and classified CONTROIEDDISSEMINATIO

FOREIGN DISSEMINATION-SECRET. (5-2)(3)

ISTANTY DES

HOA ROIS

DOIIVOTEISSVIO

ADMINISTRATIVEEX-100

REG 822

Enclosure to referenced Bureau letter was CIA

Information Cable TDCS-314/11033-68 dated 7/12/00, reporting

Sinformation regarding plan of Cuban exiles to ship arms fron

Venezuela on 3 July, 1968." LIA source was described in

Information Cable as an experienced police investigator whate

(U)

SEP 9 1968

Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Information

Cubar

Affairs,

State

Army/Navy/Air Force/DIA/Customs/Coast

B.

4 Bureau (ene 11) (RM)

5-214

1 - Legat

Do 5150 My oxe

LATIN-AMENICAN

'Sent

Bisha a bpecial Agen

(8)

M.

harge

Per

HSCA req. boy

21222/77

SEXET

"Ce tectel » Enel to Sonte Deningo

---

## Page 3

CAR QUA

910158 10064

GER:

HELLDIN:

1: 13 2M268

1968

507/01 211,326

1272

1.0.

112356

DA05/2/28/84/

-BRAKUNTEO INFO ON PGS 1,2

REMAINS CRASSIFIEO PER

1 LIR DID 5/5186

PERJA GeL 21,326 9127/90

109.9920101:59000

---

## Page 4

"FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

DBCLASSIFICATION AUTHORITY ENGU:

NEBT AUTORTIC DECLASSICICATICN CUIDE

DATE 06-13-2023

BY: F511033242

DEL ILEDEE TION ENLY

FBI

Date:

SECRETI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

9/5/68

Transmit the following iDECI ASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE GF CIA INFOrMyRe in plaintexi

Via

AIRTEL

M THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEp1 FoR the betel sis

KP 2-9-48

(Priority)

MITED

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, SAN 'JUAN (109-44) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS -CUBA

classied by muthe swine

Declassify on:

ista

REFERENCES:

ES REFERRA ROTES

dN8/80

Back fel

2114

Bureau letter

tO

San Juan, 7/26/68; Miami letter

091515540511

1579/2

to Bureau,

8/2/68.

4.15-98

ENCLOSURES :

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 500/850

DECLARETT

JFK)

• Enclosed are 10 copies

for the Bureau

• 4 copies

for Miami of an LHM dated and captioned as above.

The Bureay

is requested to forward 1 information copy of LHM to Legat

Santo Domingo.

enclosed for Bureau and Miami are one copy

B1П1

each

7/7/68,

a Defense Intellizence Agency Information Repost date

and entitled "storage of Supplies in Mona Island

by a Cuban Exile Group" and, classified" CONTROID DISSEMINATA

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION-SECRET. (5-2)(5)

Faro

SADMINISTRATIVE EX 100.

REC 82

+89+5-84-4535

coordinator of Cuban

ESTINEN SIS

NOR HAIS

NOIIVOIEISSVIO

Enclosure to referenced Bureau letter was CIA

Information Cable TDCS-314/11033-68 dated 7/12/00, reporting

MOTION

information regarding plan of Cuban exiles to ship arms Iron

Venezuela on 3 July, 1968."

CIA source was described in

Information Cable as an experienced police investigator what

Affairs,

positionngives him access to information on matters affecting

(U)

the internal security of Venezuela.

Source ernistred Informa-

7/3/68

at Caracas, Venezuela.

State

Army/Navy/Air Force/DIA/Customs/Coast

AdOO CHaMOnaState/CIA/Seenet

Guard

(U)

KARCE/RAOIS0---

Santo DomingoÉ

HH 50953

lorida,

received on 7/7/68, Ema Cuban ex From Durs DOSA DA

in the U.S. which this source had

© Bureau (ene 11) (RM)

"он"

6-30/5

(RM)

LATIN-AMERI

Sent. **:

guẩn

dat pecial Agen

DocId®)2340412 Page

- My.

Per

arge

HSCA nep. 6f11/22/17 SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SJ 109-44

(described as a Cuban exile residing in Venezuela and a

member of the

Central Directorate of paline in tonasrae

LPOSADA jis possibly

(U)

JulA InIormation report indicates

SAX

unal cuban exile group known as the Ejercito De Liberacion

Cubano (ELC) (Cuban Army of Liberation) plans to use Mona

Island, of the coast of fuerto Rico, as a storage place and

possibly as a training base. According to the source, this

group has received assistance from the Goverment of Venezuela (5z)(* lU)

in the form of weapons, amount and type not disclosed, and

an "old" boat about 60 to 80" long. POSADAj reported to the

(5-2]G

(Cuban exile source that the ELC has made at least one trip

(5-21(4)

(U)

to Mona Island from Venezuela, for the purpose of carrying

supplies. (5-2) CA/41

1

(U)

LIt should be noted that the boat described by

(POSADA)is possibly identical with the launch, Maria Constanza

aescribea in CIA Information Cable as vesseí being used to

(5=2 E1(u)

ship arms from Venezuelal (S5 2 (s7

A copy of the DIA Information Keport was furnished

JORGE MARCANO, Agent, U. S. Customs, San Juan,

had received a copy of CIA Information Cable and had

instituted investigation.

He stated that the search of Mona

Island as described in enclosed IHM was a result of this

investigation.

He indicated that he has plans to return to

Mona Island to revorartthMone@shanästos discovered there.

IHM being disseminated locally to U. S. Customs,

San Juan and U. S. Coast Guard, San Juan.

USCS

CIA INTO INIPSIAND PORTION OF

REVIEWED BY EBWJFK TASK FORCE

IPST TOP (DOURNE BRACKETEO) ANO

ON

'124/97 dab

BRACABIS IS IPS CLASSIPIEO PETE

2

IT RELEASE IN FULL

9803 2160-241324

4/29/97

SĐ

RETI

L

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HW 50953 DooId:32340412 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETI

S.J 109-44

REQUEST OF BUREAU:

n view of the possibility that CIA source i:

SLUIS POSADA who is reported to be furnishing informatior

to a Cuban exile in the U.S. the Bureau should consider

reporting this through liaison to CIA.&C

IP, CLAESIFIGO PER

CA'S 49I CR.

LEADS:

9803 add

/sel *211,326

MIAMI

429|92/

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1. Disseminate copies of enclosed LHM to appropriate

agencies. Miami is requested to furnish San Juan with extra

opies of any IHMs regarding this matter so that dissemination

may be made locally to U. S. Customs and U. S. Coast Guard.

2. Alert Cuban scurces particularly those reporting

regarding ELC matters

to the use of Mona Island as a storage

or training base.

SAN JUAN

AT SAN JAN, PUERTO RICO

1.

Will alert extablished sources and attempt

to develop information regarding

• the use of Mona Island by

Cuban exile groups.

2-

Maintain contact with U. S. Customs and U.S.

Coast

Guard regarding this matter.

3

SECRETI

HH 50953

DocId: 32340412 Page

---

