# 124-90106-10034

## Page 1

124-90106-10034

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90106-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-117222-131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

MM

DATE: 10/17/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

COMMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:, AT

19.1

HN 50953

DooId: 32333178

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHCEITI DERIVED EROU:

FBI AUTOMATIC DECLASSIEICATIEN CUIDE

DATE 05-18-2023

BY F51N93КА2

1 - Nasca

1

• Anderson

10/17/63

CONADENTIAL

Airtel

SECRET

DECLASSE CATION AND/OR,

N THIS/HOGUMENT EXCEPT Classified or 2P sChe

KP 9-23-98

SAC, Miami (105-7054)

toi BRAckiTs Declassily on: DADIGal

IN 1P 2

Director, FBI (105-117222) -

131

To:

REC-.

From:

COMANDOS I,

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

12-V8-88

3-28-98

CLAS3

213 CLASSITED M5668 SIOPISP

DATE OE HAVEN

DECLASSIFYEN:

6/18/52.

Re CIA Information Reports dated 10/11/63 captioned

JFK)

"Planned Post-Hurricane Raid on Cuba by the Comandos I"' and 10/14/63

captioned "Schedule for a Comandos I Raid on Puerto Padre, Cuba, "

12,2 ema Neit

cras

*211.326

both of which are self-explanatory.

(U)

For your confidential infornation, not to be disseminated

outside the Bureau, information has been received from CIA

indicating that pursuant to instructions from the White House,

CIA is currently exploring the possibilities of collaborating

with this organization in promoting activities directed against

the Castro government.

This will include raids on Cuba. All

such raids would be initiated from British territory in the

Bahamas and it will be necessary fox CIA to coordinate with the

British.]

Immediately check with CIA to see if CIA has operational

interest in raid set forth in referenced communications.

If' no

CIA interest,

check with Customs to determine if it is investigating

this matter

118.963

In

eventneither

factor is present, promptly check

Tolson

Belmont

sources and informants

for any indication there 'is substance to

Mohr

Casper

the allegation and keep Bureau currently advised of all developments.

Callahan .

Conrad

_ LLA:klw

(5)

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

NOTE:

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel,

is planning

According to CIA, captioned anti-Castro organization

Trotter

_above action belieyed

to conduct raid on Cuba during Octoper, 1963. The

warranted lat

Tale. Room

this time

Holmes .

Gandy

WENCHIA

NH 50953 DocId:32333178 Page 2

---

