# 124-10221-10297

## Page 1

124-10221-10297

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10221-10297

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-2-14253

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, BOMBINGS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

08/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HN 50953

DocId: 32340901

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(PAGER RUEAIIA 8212 S E CP EI

OUT "NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF THE COMMUNIST SITUATION UNDER WHICH THE

CUBAN PEOPLE HAVE TO LIVE, BUT BECAUSE OF COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF

LATIN AMERICA." IT WAS SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT TWO BOMBINGS OCCURRE D

THE OTHER HAVING BEEN AGAINST THE CUBANA DE AVIACIÓN OFFICE LOCATED

AT TOCUMEN INTERNATIONALI

AIRPORT WHICH SERVES PANAMA CITY AND THE

PAN AMAT

PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

30 COSTA RICA: A. THE LOCAL PRESS OF 5 AUGUST 1976

REPORTED THE

ARREST OF THREE MEN

CHARGED WITH PLACING BOMBS IN THE OFFICES OF THE

LEFT-WING NEWSPAPER

PUEBLO," THE COSTA RICAN POPULAR FRONT PARTY AND

THE SOCIALIST PARIS.

THE. ACTIVITIES OF THE MEN ARRESTED WERE SAID TO

BE DIRECTED BY

THE

ALATIN AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL" FOUNDER BY

Ch

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

Coste

Rief

Costi

Krish

CARVAJAL, ARE COSTA RICAN NATIONALS. GARCIA/WAS SAID ALSO TO REPRE-.

SENT A PRO-CHILE ORGANIZATION, CITED AS/COMITE COSTARRICENSE PRO- Chile

VERDAD CHILENA," AND TO BE LINKED WITH BOSCH. ACCORDING TOLA USUALLY

RELIABLE COSTA RICAN SECURITY OFFICIAL WHO REPORTS WITHOUT THE KNOW-

LEDGE OF HIS GOVERNMENT

COSTA RICAN AUTHORITIES DISCOVERED AMONG

NH 50953 DocId:32340904 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE

3 RUEAIIA 8212 SECRET

THE PERSONAL EFFECIS OF THE MEN ARRESTED A LETTER FROM BOSCH MEN -

TIONING HIS GROUP AS RESPONSIBLE FOR A BOMBING ACTION TAKEN AGAINST

CUBANA DE AVIACION AT KINGSTON, JAMAICA.

E. AT ABOUT 9720 HOURS LOCAL TIME: ON 24 AUGUST 1976 TWO HIGH EX-

PLOSIVE DEVICES WERE DETONATED IN SAN JOSE. ONE HAD BEEN PLACED

OUT SIDE THE OFFICES OFYABERIA ATPLINES BUT HAD BEEN MOVED BY A

STREET CLEANER TO A POINT

FARTHER WEST OF THE SAME STREET WHERE IT

EXPLODED IN FRONT OF OTHER OFFICES. THE OTHER EXPLODED OUTSIDE THE

OFFICES OF THENNANACO SHIPPING LINE IN THE SAA BISTRICT OF SAN

JOSE. THE EXPLOSIONS INJURED SIX PERSONS. THE PRESS DESCRIBED THE

BOMBS AS HAVING BEEN FABRICATED WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVE AND DETONATED BY

CLOCK MECHANISMS. IT ALSO NOTED THAI IBERIA MAS AIR ROUTES SERVICING

CUBA AND NANACO IS ASSOCIATED WITH THE NAVIERA MULIINACIONAL DEL

CARIBE (NAMUCAR) TO WHICH CUBA BELONGS, AND RELATED THE BOMBINGS TO

SIMILAR ACTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED IN PANAMA AND COLOMBIA..

4. IHIS AGENCY'S REPRESENTATIVE IN SAN JOSE COMMENTED THAT

THERE HAS BEEN A RASH OF BOMB INCIDENTS IN SAN JOSE DURING. THE LAST

SEVERAL MONTHS. THE EARLIER ONES ENTAILED THE USE OF BLACK POWDER-

TYPE INGREDIENTS, NORMALLY PURCHASED LOCALLY FOR RELIGIOUS CELEBRA-

TIONS, AND THEREFORE WERE NOT ESPEGIALLY DANGEROUS OR DAMAGING. THE

HH 50953 DocId:32340904 Page 3

---

