# 124-10279-10258

## Page 1

124-10279-10258

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

• 4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10258

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-12-221-417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TTTLE:

DATE: 02/10/1960

PAGES:

• 10

SUBJECTS:

NRO, INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY, MATEOS, LOPEZ, SOUTH

AMERICAN TRIP, CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION,

CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NY 50953

DocId: 32301923

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL EBI INEDRATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIZIED

DAVE 06-12-2023 BY 204233442 ADC

SECREY

Date:

2/10/60

S-10:24

Depossi

TO:

Fron:

Director, FBI

Legat, Mexico (100-743G)

Subject: HONTHLY INTELLIGLIICE SUFMARY

SYNOPSIS

2/13/18 JSG

foerial

MSCA re 12/22/08 Request

re Rottmen

lassita

Declairy on: BADR 2/5/35

LOPEZ MATEOS' SOUTH AMERICAN IRI? (cont. (page 2): Recent South.

American trip or Mexican President gave emphasis to need for

• CORRALALD

LASSIFIED

SOIN

emotional rather than naterialistic. DAVID. ALFARC SIQUELROS

(page 3): While recently in Caracas, Venezuele,

SIQUEIROS made

statements critical of both Mexican President and Mexican

Revolution. Mexican administration and public angerod by remarks

CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION (page 3):

Cuba.

Meeting sponsored

Ty society of riends of cuba hela at Mexico city, 1/17/60, to

demonstrate support for Cuban Government.

Nicaragua:

Report

received that Cuban Government still planning to support invasion.

Ha1t1: Political

situation reported to be deteriorating.

of Nicaragua with pro-Communist elements ARRiDO CONNISHAEUS

rational congress,

to provide more time for holding of State Congressos and

preparation of Ciscussion material.

POCM representatives to be

Invited to attend congress.

Federal District Conmittee to step

up dues collections and general cell activity. JCM held plenun

1/11-74/60 LA PAREIDO POPULAR - PP (POPULAR PARTY) (page 7) :

pp being reorganized and members being solicited to submit

background and other data. PP held annual New Year's banquet

on 2/6/60.

PP Inaugurated Pioneers, Boy Scout type organizatico,

on. 2/5/60.

VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO (page 8):

LOMBARDO waS

principal speaker at PP New Year's banquet and

generally spoke

favorably of covernment of LOPEZ MATEOS and his trid to south

America.

(page 9) :

:1 13-298-417

+405

....e 52 UK

28

- Bureall

it - Mexico city

INS GEN SYBRIG: DIK

34, 3

CP, RX, 5A,

lug the legs,

BEC. DerA)

LB 25 1960

CLASS

DECLAS

HM 50953 DocId:32301923

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETL

MC 100-743G

Cuban Exile Activities

On January 28, 1960, PSI MIGUEL ANDRES DE LEON ROJAS

reported that responsible Cuban exile groups in Mexico City and

he United States, who have suppanted Dr. EMILIO NUNEZ PORTUONDO

re convinced that General JOSE, ELEUTERIQ PEDRAZA, CABRERA, Wh

commands a group of Cuban military exiles in the Dominican

Republic; would not be a wise selection as the military leader

of the attempt to overthrow the CASTRO government.

The PSI

further adyised that these Cuban exile groups belleve that

PEDRO LUIS DIAZILANZ, former Chief of, the cuban Art force,

would be a much better military leader. (A»W

The PSI also advised that information received from

sources within Cuba reflected that FIDEL CASTRO had prepared a

decree ordering the United States to vacate the Guantanamo

Naval Base.

According to this information, the decree was

originally prepared in late November, 1959, but had not yet

been signed for issuance. (e)EM

the PSI further reported that ne had heard reports in

Miams, Florida, of an Invasion atempt which allegedly woulo

be made by supporters of ROLANDO, MASFERRER, a cuban exile who

resides in Miami. The Ps stated that MASFERRER, ROBERTO

FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, NORMAN ROTHMAN, and their associates form a

group which is not regarded in a favorable light by responsible

Cuban exiles or by responsible elements within Cuba.

The PSI

stated that from the information available to him in Miami he

doubted very much that MASFERRER would be able to make an

attempt at invading

Cuba of, if an attempt were made, that 1t

would be successful. (8) (u)

Nicaragua

rItaraguan exiles and -Cuban

Invade Nicaragua.

guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force.

Ihe PSI stated he had received no Information as to the timing

-5-

1, 57.8

NW 50953

DocId: 32301923 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MC 100-743G

age and is disposed to follow an international policy that

will not only benefit Mexico but its sister Latin American

countries who are bound together not only by historical ties

but by the same economic and social conditions and identical

perspectives.

In apparent reference to DAVID ALPARO SIQUEIROS, 4f fiti.

Leading feM ligure he stated that some people, who are unable

to understand national and international politics althouen

Any eXpound them daily, have been oritical of President/lOBl

SIQUEIROS made a statement to the press wherein he criticized

the President for not accepting a bid to visit Cuba and stated

that President LOPEZ MATEOS was merely laying the ground work

for a subsequent visit by President EISENHOWER. LOMBARDO waS

critical of President LOPEZ MATEOS In certain respects,

particularly in connection with the imprisonment of the

railroad strike agitators and PCM and POCM leaders.

ACTION TAKEN: None. Will be disseminated in the

next report on the PP.

JKS)

Investigation conducted by this offige to identify

pointed to

44!t

wn.

on .

1960,' MEX

returned to Mexico CityCK

From a trip to los Apestes.

meeting

with.

He thereafter kept,a prearranged

1960, andfurned over to LSy

_id newspaper, clippings gathered br

CS)

Instructed ME

to pick up al

1960. Prom

_was to contain questions recarding MerL

Personal meeting for

trip to los Angeles 1960.101 -

also set up aly

(55)

- 9.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32301923 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRED

MC 100-743G

- 428032.

1960. Contrary tol

I this

705

Instead of beingl

"a keeps the notes of his

among what type of

observations and the newspaper 11p initiate his contacta, S

people does L

what his expenses have been, the manner in which the data on

seen by the

was obtained s

noted in the vicinity of the places C

visited,

the possibilIty of taking photograpas

of the objectives,

family, and the identity of the objectives on which data can

be more easily secured. .)

MEX

questions posed

robes and tenerall anewered the

Tby MES

on (ST

1960

and NEX

It changed the nersonas meeting between S

"rom the

it the same time and place-cop

the C

ACTION TAKEN: None, pursuant to specific Bureau

Instructions.

-10-

SECRETL

HHT

30953

DocId: 32301923

Page

5

---

