# 124-90102-10154

## Page 1

(124-90102-10154)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992)

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10154

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-116193-117

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

• DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/24/1963

35

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

IA; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1999

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

179150953

DoeId: 32332507

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

DECLASSIEICATION AUTHORITY DERIVED TRON:

FBI AUTOMATIC DEELASSIDICATION CUIDE

DATE 00-16-2023

BY: E541193142

{49.3-1=503

77311

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECKEL

REPORTING OFFICE

HIANT

TITLE OF CASE

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS;

BOMBING OF AUTOMOBILE

USED BY JOSE MURO CARDONA

11/20/62, MIAMI, FLORIDA

MIAMI

DATE

1/24/63

ESTIGATIVE PINIOR

11/23/62-1/16/63

REPORT MADE WY

TYPID IF

GEORGE E, DIVES, J.

CHARAGER OF CASi pages: 9, 11, 15, 14, 15

IS - CUBA!

"199,38,42,49,44,1

(0647, 24,

RA - CUBA;

554, 57,60, 67,72

83,88,

SABOTAGE

44, 95, 97,99103

MUSE CRENCE:

i want org

13, EWFD

Bualrtels to Miami, 12/3, 11, 18, 21, 27, 1962;

1/16/63;

Butele to Mani, 12/1, 4,

6,12,

FBI Laboratory report, 12/6/62;

20, 1962;

New Jork airtel to Bureau, 1/15/63;

Report of SA GEORGE E, DAVIS, JR., dated 12/5/62g

at Miant;

Ment teletypes to Burea, di

e?.

to-Bureau, 12/28/02; 1/19

CIA /STATE/RAO

8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 17, 18, 1969,

ONI /OSI/ACSE

Zacsof pgs. 36,70,77-81made

routing slip for info.

-P far SSC-I revear at FBIHQ

FEB 1 1963

x/16/63;

copy of this report le designated for Washington Field

ser intormation purposes, da view of Dr JOSE, NIRO CARDONA'S triP

ON CONTAINED

ALIED MENT

CLASSED MY Self

MALICIAL AGENT

V

APPROVIN

COPIES MA

Bureau

42 - Mland

(105-11619S3A AMASO OBJECTION 46 5-1

7161931/

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

(105-6886)

HELEASE UP

UP UNIVATION

jee

next page for other copies

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K/ 12-15-9/01 25-1963

EXCEPT FOR BRACETS ON

D, F, 5 * K

- , Aka N

Dissemination Reeord of Anaels

petgi

Not lens

RECA

EX114

laqueat Recd.

Ito Fwd.

tit Fud!

EBIT 8 19631

SECRET

NH 50953

Doc1d: 32352507

Fage

---

## Page 3

MM 105~6886

SECRE

5. Will Identify subaczibera to New York -

telephone numbers FL 5-4400, called November 19; 1962g

and YU 6-1055, called November 20, 1962, For which

long dietance charges were placed

to JE 2-4680, phone

Of DE. MIRO: CARDONA, Miani Beach, Florida.

SAN JUAN:

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

Will Interview MANOLO RAY, head of the Cuban

Revolutionary

to San Juan.

Golonel WENDELL JOHNSON who serves

as Liaison man between De: JOSE MIRO CARDONA, President

of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC), and some

United States agencies, Including CIA has advised

that

MIRO CARDONA le opposed to BAY.

Other infornation has

been previously received reflecting that MIRO CARDONA has

described RAY as a Leftlet, and that he would never permit

RAY to join the CRC.

Some of these remarks have allegedly

been made through public media.

Investigation by Miami

in the case on JURE has disclosed that RAY was allegedly

In Miami some time prior to the bombing incident of

November 20, 1962-

RAY's representative in Miami, ROGELIO CISNEROS,

has been

intervieved, but claimed to possess no pertinent

infornation.

San Juan should attempt to ascertain 1f RAY 18

In any way implieated as a conspirator or otherwise, and

if deened advisable, request the Bureas to nuthorize

giving him a polygraph interview.

D.

COVER PACE

JEONES

HH 50959

DoeId: 32332507

Fage 3

(U)

---

## Page 4

MN 105-6886

7 •

Will Interview DI. CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS,

former. President of Cuba, concerning any knowledge

he may possess concerning this bombing, it being noted

that PRIO reportedly met with MIRO CARDONA for several.

discussions shortly prior to November 10, 1962. It

will also be borne in mind that GONZALEZ CARTAS has

allegedly been closely associated with PRIO in the

past, and was allegedly sent by PRIO on two assassina-

cion attempts against BATISTA®

8 Will locate and interview ANTONIO-FARINAS,

who was present at the CRC office, 1700 Biscayne Bouleverd,

Miami, when EVORA ARCA engaged in a telephone conversation

with ASUNCION PEREZ, Beeretary tO MIRO, on November 19,

1962, concerning MIRO's anticipated return to Miami.

9. Will locate and interview CARLOS RODRICUEZ

CASADO, delegate of the 30th of November Movement, who

was "booted out of the che by miro cardond in abore

March, 1962, according to Colonel WENDELL JOHNSON, ho

1s in

• Llaison between MIRO CARDONA and verious United

States Government agencies, Including CIA (See

Administrative Section, thie report.)

10. Will locate and interview ELADIO DEL VALLE,

head of PAICA, who allegedly speaks ill of MIRO CARDONA,

and who has been critical of United States policy towerd

Cuba because of lack of action againat CASTRO.

Will conduct appropriate prelininary inves

tigation concerning JESUS ALVAREZ DEL PUERTO, 221 N. E.

17th Terrace, Miami, who was subjeeted to a polygraph

Interview by the Cuban Voluntary Enliatment Program of

the United States Army, Miant, at which time his answers

F.

COVER PAGE

HH 50953 DocId: 32332507 Page 1

---

## Page 5

MM 105-6886

JESUS CONZALEZ, CARTAS and

HUMBERTO RODRIGUEZ DIAZ

On January 1, 1963, JESUS GONZALEZ CARTAS

and: HUMBERTO RODRIGUEZ DIAZ, who have been regarded

as principal suspects in this cases voluntarily came to

the Miami Office, proclaimed their innocence, and offered

to take another polygraph interview exanination. They

were Instructed to call back later that evening or

early the following morning for a specific appolatment.

Special Agente EDWIN L. SWEET and GEORGE E. DAVIS, J.,

DO IN T

on 'January 9, 1963, went to their apartment, 721 S. W..

5ch Street, Apartment 3, Mient, at which time both stated

they had consulted

an attorney

and had been advised not

to again take

a polygraph Interview examination. Never-

theless, they claimed they were innocent of the

• MIRO

CARDONA bombing Incident.

On January 7, 1963, SERGIO. CASTRO GUERRA aigned

a polygraph

walver and a consent to search his home,

but it has not been deemed practical or necessary to proceed

with either of

these courses of action, due

to results of

interview with him.

on January yos, special Agent copiet B.

DAVIS, Jo, met with Colonel WENDELL JOHNSON

-United

States

Arny (Retired), who serves as Liaison Officer

between the

Chief, CIA, and FRED BUCCI, Security Section, CIA, Miant.

(Colone1 JOHNSON Stated in about March, 1962, CARLOS RODRIGUEZ

CASADO, delegate

of the soth ot November organtzation,

OSVALDO SOTO, delegate of the 20th of May organization,

COVER PAGE

NH 50953

Doold: 32332507

Page 5

---

## Page 6

(U)

им 105-6886

SECREE

were "booted out! of the CRC by MIRO CARDONa, and he

mentioned these individuals upon being questioned

concerning possible suspects in thie case.

Previous

Investigation has disclosed that OSVALDO SOTO left

Miami during the past eummer,

and is now residing

In Wyoming He also mentioned that MANOLO RAY of

the Cuban Revolutionary Junta (JURE) 1e opposed by

CARDONA, who considers RAT Marxiat in his vievs, but

(Colonel

JOHNSON had no specific reason to suspeet

RAY of being implicated in this case YE)

Por the information of the Bureau, Mr.

FRED BUCCI, CIA, Miant, advised thie office in early

December,

196%g

that OSCAR ANGULO REYESJANho was in

- (0)

contact with CIA, possessed Information concerning &

possible suspect

in thut case. Thereacter, the ta

Office contacted ANGOLO, who furnished the information

set forth under the last section of the detaile,

concerning VICENTE CASAS ABREU

NECATIVE CONTACTS

In addition

• to contacts set forth under details

of this report, Miami has contacted the following

addicional Individuals, with negative resulte.

JOSE FERNANDEZ BADUE, 2325 Biscayne

Boulevard, Miant, head of Christian

Democrat Movement, contacted on

December 9, 1962, by Special Agent

ROBERT JAMES DWYER;

MANUEL AVILA ASCUNCE, alleged FIDEL CASTEO

syupathizer, Interviewed November 23, 1962g

at his residence, 1453 N. W. 3rd Street,

Apartment 12, by Special

Agent JOHN R. BARRON;

• k.

COVER PAGE

SEC

El

HH 50953 DocId: 32332507 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-6886

RENE I. DIAZ: Coordinator of the Cuban

Electric Company Employees in Exile

(Source of Information), 1018 S. W.

4th Street, Miami, contacted by SA NERO

on November 26 and December 5,

1962;

MARIO ARMANDO PEREZ GONCORA, ake. Mario

Perez, 3464 N. W. 17th Street, Mlant,

(Source of Information), contacted on

November 27, 1962, by Special Agent

ELWIN B. JONKS.

INPORMANES

Identity

Location

Contesting Agent

MM I-1 (18

FRED BUCels

Instant report, SA GEORGE E. DAVIS,:

Security Section,

pages 7, 8, 81

GIA, MiamI, Florida (4)

MM T-2 La SALVADOR

Instant report,

GARCIA OLLER,

page 39

331 East 18ch

• Steg

Hialeah, Florida,

member of Unidad

Revolucionaria

MM T-3 18 MY 761-$

MI TH 16 MM 492-5

MM I-5 i8 BERNARDO

MARTINEZ, FSI

Instant report, SA THOMAS H. ERRION

pages 39, 40,

102

Instant report SA DAVIS

pages 34, 539

81, 109

Instant report, SA EUGENE I.. PAYNE

page 58

M.

COVER PAGE

NH 50953 DocId: 32332507 Page 7

---

## Page 8

(U)

ми 105-6886

.....-.....

Identity

MM I-6 16 MM 776-5

MN IT IS DANIEL

VASQUEZ, Southern

Wholesale Groceries,

1200 N. W. 22ad Sto,

Former member of

"La CrUE"

X51)

MM 1-8 18

PSI

MM 815-S,

IN I-SES FILLIAM

HICKS security

Sectlory CIA,

Mant, Floriday!

MM I-10 1a MM 801-S

MM T-11 18 MM 635-5

+: ---F0

Location

Contasting Agent

Instant report,

SA WILLIAM Ge

page 59

FRIEDEMANN

' Instant report,

SA GEORGE E.

pages 59, 60,

DAVIS, JU®

64

Instant report, SA EDWIN L. SWEET

pages 64, 65,

82

Instant report, SA DAVIS

page 82

Instant report, SA JOHN E, MCHUGH

page 108

Instant report, SA DAVIS

page 109

COVER PAGE

sat-

HH 50953 DocId: 32332507

Fage B

---

