# 157-10005-10225

## Page 1

157-10005-10225

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 10/01/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10225

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R891

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

SSCIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

TESTIMONY/REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS WITH EXHIBITS

DATE: 08/12/75

PAGES : 90

SUBJECTS :

TESTIMONY OF HOUSTON,

LAWRENCE RE: CIA AND CASTRO

EXHIBITS ARE INCLUDED

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 248-02

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Bx 36

NW 50955

DooId: 32202415

Page

1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

18

1

2

3

5

6

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20°

21

22

27

Niarchos' ship captains named Katopodes brought a libel action

I believe it was, against Onassis for some letter he had written

about some activities of Katapodes, I can't remember the

details now.

We didn't know where this was leading. So this was in

the Supreme Court of New York State, and so I went to a fellow

I knew in the U.S. Attorney's office and asked him if he

could keep track of how this suite was developing to see if

it was leading into some of the connections we had, par-

ticularly with Niarchos.

And he got some of the pleadings and some of the pre-

trial evidence --

Mr. Wides. But you don't recall any contacts between

the Agency and the Justice Department resulting in Mr. Yeagley

going up to try and halt some aspects of the grand jury

proceedings in New York growing out --

Mr. Houston. :It strikes no valve.

Mr. Wides. Let me ask just one more question in this

area and then we will move on to the document I asked you to

look at before we started.

Mr. Maxwell.

I have just one other question.

Mr. Wides

HW 50955

DocId: 32p02415 Page 2

TOP SECDET

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

19

4

5

6

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20.

21

22

237

Do you recall that incident and the eventual denouement

of the affair?

Mr. Houstono

I cannot remember the exact chronology.

I had thought

they had gotten the report on the problem a

little earlier than you suggested. But

can't argue it.

25

It was a confused picture.

WW 50955

DocId: 32202415

Page 3

All soxts of interpersonal feelinge

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

20

1

2

5

4

that I recall were going on out there. And Ithink one of the

ill

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

And I said, there is no particular problem, because

there is nothing we can

about

because there is no crime

against the U.S. that I canefind

in this

situation, it is a

crime against

And Allen said, thatewell may be.

that I want to report this to Justice.

But I still think

So, I

did prepare a report and delivered it to -I

can't remember- probably to the Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, who ever it was.

They said to the effect, thank you, that is

There

is nothing we can do.

Mr. Wides. Was there any discussion of the possibility

NW 50955 DocId:32/02415 Page 4

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

21

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

3

4

5

6

8

WARD & PAUL

÷

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

IN 50955 DocId: /2202415 Page 5

MI. Wides. Did you have another question in this area?

Mr. Maxwell. I just wanted to say, if you wanted to

continue, you said there were three cases that eliminated the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD A

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

TOP SECRET

22

kind of cases which CIA had with Justice, and the referrals,

and you had gone through one. And I wondered if you wanted

to go through the other two.

Mr. Houston. All right.

The second one was quite an interesting one. If I give

it in too much detail, excuse me.

Mr. Maxwell.

Off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Maxwell.

Back on therecord.

MI. Houston.

all of a

sudden disappeared from his post, and there was indication

that he had with him a considerable sum of money, something

in the nature of $30,000, I can't remember the exact amount.

This was promptly reported, and he disappeared into the blue.

The

started looking into it. And I believe we

sent people over to try and look into it, and found that

there had been a serious family problem between himself and his

wife.

Finally,

in Mexico we got

word that this fellow was near Mexico City, and he passed word

to the

through a lawyer that he had written all the

operational details of what he had been engaged in

which again were very sensitive, sealed them, and put them

in a vault which only thelawyers could get at, with instruc-

NH 50955

25

DocId: 32202415 Page 6

tions to his lawyers that if anything happened to him, no

TOD SECDFT

---

## Page 7

WARD

& PAUL

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

WW 50955

TOP SECRET

29

1

The SEC, as a result has raised some questions with Justice

2....

between our justice and our statutory problems. This is

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

before Justice now.

MI. Wides. Is there a file in the OGC office generally

regarding, not necessarily every one, but many of your --

which would contain many or most of OGC contacts with

Administrative agencies over the years?

Mr. Houston. No, because they weren't - there probably

is a substantial file on relations with Internal Revenue.

But those were to a large part either working out our own

tax equations on our own personnel with cover problems which

you probably know about, or the CAT situation, or Southern

Air Transport, and not interferring with IRS prosecutions,

although several times we were involved - here is the type of

case I guess you are talking about.

What is the fellow out in the Philippines -- I think his

name is Stenchill - who had one of the biggest tax assess-

ments made against an individual made against him, I think.

$2 million?

And Btorekill, very definitely tried to involve

us in his defense. There was some connection with Stonehin

in the Philippines, you couldn't be in the Philippines without

some connection with them. And yet gave IRS the full in-

formation, and said, don't bother with us, we are not

concerned.

Mr. Wides. What about such things as the contacts with

DocId: 32202415 Page 7

TOD SECRFT

---

## Page 8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

?

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

•14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NW 50955 DocId 32202115 Page 8

TOP SECRET

55

MI. Houston.

It was a memo of DITEL's that I saw.

I think it was dated after I left. I saw it in draft after-

ward. It had to do, I recall, with operations in the Trust

Territories.

Mr. Wides. In other words, the first category of issue

that I mentioned?

Mr. Houston. Yes.

that

Mr. Wides. With regard to MH MUTUAL, which is a topic

obviously don't have time to discuss fully today

and

we have

not yet seen the files, I wonder -- and Mr.

Maxwell

was going to

puissue this, and I may be back -

"you could

give me a rough

idea

during the period when

1,C

was under your

stewardship of the org

zational chart,

a'S

it were, for the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

56

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

2

8

9

10

11

12

WARD & PAUL

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

IN 50955 DocId: $2202415 Page 9

TOP SFCRFT

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

4

5

6

WARD & PAUL

vi

8

9

10

11

12

1

.3

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

IT 50955 DocId: $2202415 Page 10

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

3

4

5

6

Mr!

Houston. There were about two or maybe three recom-

mendations

Nerom the Investment Counsel we had atlithe time we

were turned down

Mr. Wides

Excuse me.

Was the Investment Counsel the

person you were referring

to?

Mr. Houston.

No,

this was an

Outside investment

counsel we retained for advice for

a period of time.

PA

WARD

• 20003

8

9

10

11,

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

• 22

23

24

25

WH 50955

DocId:/2202415 Page 11

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

59 00

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

PAUL

WARD &

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NW 50955

DocId: 32202415 Page 12

So, Finally, weldecided that while we had gone to him

for a good reason,

that is, so we could show thatife had

relied on outside

counsel of known stature, that it as

• not fair either

to him or to us to be in circumstances where

we were really secondguessing him through our own internàl

procedures

and our own invetment sort of Board of Directors.

So we

left, I hope, on friendly terms.

MI. Wides. About when was that?

Mr. Houston. Let me guess at around 1969, something

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

4

5

6

WARD

Washingion, D.C. 20003

S.E.,

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NW 50955

DocId: 32202415 Page 13

60

like

that.

Mra

Wides.

Up until then as far as you know there

was

no investment of Agency funds that were made as

Result

of any decisions or implications within the CIA which might

then have been

run by him for his independent advice

but might

have originated

Mr. Houston.

on prompted within the Agency?

There may have been those

You see,

on our Board of Directors to which we referred

all basic in-

vestment decisions we had three of our toppeconomists, and

at least one of them was a member of a

couple of college

investment boards, so that they had the

benefit of the advice

to those university investment counsel.

Mr. Wides. Was he a consuleing economist or a member--

MI. Houston. A member of

the

Staff.

Mr. Maxwell.

Mr. Houston. Yes.

Mr. Wides.

And her relationship with

the university

board was what, as an

alumni?

Mr. Houston.

As an alumni. She was calledias a

consultant on

their investment program.

We also had the advice of a couple of friendly banks,

and

at

least a couple of insurance companies would freely

give us

the benefit of their investment policies.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

3

4

5

6

WARD

Washington, D.C. 20003

410 First

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

HW 50955

DocId: 32202115

Page 14

TOP SECRET

61

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr.

Houston.

To go back to the start -- it may have

already been

the OGC office

told -- back in the last fifties we found in

that the hardest thing to cope with

were bene-

fits for death

disability insured under covert

circumstan-

ces, particularly

when, as so often happened, no

prior planning

had been made for this.

Even the prior planning is diffi-

cult, because if you are going to put an agent into certain

circumstances, and say you will get him

insurance through

Mutual of Omaha, if the circumstances

ox the Department are

later known to Mutual of Omaha,

they might say, well, that

is not a risky cover, and continually you wouldn't have

your insurance.

So, we came to the conclusion that we needed our own in-

surance business, and we started by buying two very small

off-shore insurance companies, and started writing death and

health policies. Now,

the business grew quitel capialy to

cover all sorts of covert operations. And we went to two

large outside insurence companies and asked if they would

• cooperate and take

some of the policies either on a

fully

pro-

tected basis

from us, or if they saw fit, for their own account.

And both of

them did both. They would take some risks for

their own account, and the only thing we would ask is that

they

protect the investigation in case it got into sensitive

fields.

TOD SECDET

---

## Page 15

phone (Area 202) 544-6000

PAUL

WARD

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

bạnk.

25

NW 50955

DocId: 32202415 Page 15

TOP SECRET

62

others they would ostensibly take the risk and

WA

would stand

behind them.

Mr.

es.

So that was indemnification?

MI. Houston.

Complete indemnification. And

and

large this arrangement worked extremely well.

Mr. Wikes.

So those were the kinds of

nsurance companies

were were talking about that would give us

benefit of

their investment?

MI. Houston. Both of

them had large investment portfolios

of their own, and feel I gave

u's

access

to their investment

manager, who were most cooperative

what they were invest-

ing.

Mr. Wikes. And what was

the point of contact in the

Agency during that period for

the insurange

companies?

Mr. Houston. I wen

in both cases to set up the ori-

ginal contact, and then

this project officer

wais

the

primary.

Mr. Wikes.

And he would have been the point

of contact

for receiving

their investment views?

Mr. Houston.

He or his office.

Mr.

Wides.

And you mentioned also a bank as añout-

side source.

Mr. Houston. There were a couple of banks, but one

particularly. We kept some of the money on deposit with this

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544•6000

WARD

20003

410 Firs

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

63

The bank at

OUr

request

gave us a flat guarantee of repayment no matter

what

on these

assets.

So, we felt well protected on this.

And

also.

when we deposited with them the certificates of deposit we

got the normal orime rate on our deposits.

And

here again

they particularly

in the field of Eurobonds had

some good

advice, and we also

went to another brokerage

House in

New York who had investment advisory staff that specialized in

Eurobonds.

So far as I

now, they did not know the Agency

was involved, but they gave

advice on

the best interest rates

in Eurobonds and certificates.

It

was a highly specialized

field.

Mr. Maxwell. Who was going

the investment house, the

project officer?

Mr. Houston. The project officer

Mr. Wides. Do you

ecall any dealings with Suydam and Com-

pany?

Mr. Houston. No

I have been asked time and time again

about Suydam Company, and the only thing I knew was from

personal knowledge going back to a trust my sister has an

interest in in

the Guaranty Trust. They had one off these hold-

ing companies

which I think was called Suydam and Company. But

you never heard - who was it? I know. One of our directors

of Southern Air Transport told me that he was continually

being asked by contact with Suydam and Company. And he sai

NN 50955 DocId:02202415 Page 16

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

TOP SECRET

64

that

the only one he knows, was the Guaranty Trust.

was someone else,I don't know about it.

There

Mr.

Wides.

GEtting back to the question I alluded

to while we

wehe

off the record, did any questions

arise about

whether the people

on the board, the investment board, or manag-

ing board of Mutual

who were from within the

Agency, would

have access to economie

intelligence or political intelli-

gence relevant to their

own thinking on investments, and

S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410

HW 50955

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Houston. The members of the board were always free

to bring up their ideas for investments, particularly in the

stock field, until more recent years. But mainly we were

consulting the economic experts

for

their general economic knowl-

edge on trends and any input

they could

give on basic invest-

ment policies.

Mr. Wides. That

would include, I assume, economic in-

telligence regarding f

for example, the trend of whether there

was likely to be a

copper shortage, or the tread of

whether there was

Mikely to be more nationalization of rubber

plantations

oil?

How would

you differentiate that from economic

intelli-

gence except that it would be --

Houston.

Because our investments, except

for the

Eurobonds, were almost entirely in U.S. investments. And

while these were trained economists, their main professional

DocId: 3P202415 Page 17

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

S.E., Washington. D.C. 20003

Firs

410

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NT 50955

DocId: 7220

TOP SECRET

65

interest was in the foreign field. And I don't remember them

staying

for instance, let's get into copper, it is going

to

be in very short supply in Peru or whatever. I don't

remember

any discussion of that sort.

MI. Wides.

Do you recall any policy papers/or reviews

generally as to the use of Agency knowledge in

the broadest

sense of its intelligence fund in regard to

the investment

decisions as distinct from decisions that

were generated wholly

by outside?

Mr. Houston.

There were

various basic general policy

papers --

usually I would prepare

them and put them before

the board -- in which this may have

been touched on. I don't

recall it specifically.

MI. Maxwell. The source of funds

invested under the

auspices of the board were

what?

In other words, all these companies that we had in

this insurance complex appeared to have the substance ans

insraance company would be expected to have.

Actually,

the

whole fund

for all of them was managed as a central fund under

this one project officer. On the design and organizational

5

Page 18

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

4

5

6

WARD

20003

Washington, D.C

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NW 50955

DocId: 32202415 Page 19

TOP SECRET

chart

looked very complicated. In operation it was quite

simple.

was handled really as one entity with various

faces

appearing.

And the complications of those whereby

maintaining

your directors

who took no part in the operation,

your companies

directors, and

things, and keeping your letterhead straight

for your writing

the different companies.

Mr. Maxwell.

Were there other sources

of

funds,

profits

in stock or bond

transactions that

went back into the investment fund?

MI. Houston.

They would all go into the central in-

vestment fund, and in the initial stages, particularly where

there was income from funds and

dividends -- until the stock

market broke there were some capital

gains registered. Then

the investment policy went more and

more, particularly as

the interest rate went up,

the Eurobonds and certificates

of deposit, where for a while you were gesting -- I think we

got a weighted average of over ll percent.

And then those

would go back into the

fund against the insurance loss account

ability.

The mos

difficult thing we had was trying to

decide what was enough, because there was no actuarial exper-

ience such as

n a nominal insurance company.

MI.

Wides.

You mean the capitalization of particular

companies against insurance?

• Houston. Exactly.

Mr. Wides.

TAD CECDET

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

410 First

6

1

11

1

2

3

1

4

1

5

1

6

17

18

Mr. Wides.

With regard to the investment, in the case

of certificates of deposit abroad I take it that is what you

19

• are referring to as the weighted average, when you weighted

20

Eurodollarsa Eurobonds and certificates of deposit.

Whatever

21

the form,

were some of the investments in foreign countries made

22

in any day in consultation with the operating divisions on

23

regard to the non-investment aspects of the loan, if you

24

NH 50955

25

DocId: 72202415 Page 20

TOP SFCAFT

---

## Page 21

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

4

5

6

Mr®

Houston. No.

Let

us

get one thing straight. The certificate of depo-

sit were domestic.

MI. Wides.

Were there any foreign loans?

Mr. Houston.

There were no foreign

loans that I recall.

The Eurodollar bonds

vere in the case those which were guaranteed

by a U.S. company.

E., Washington, D.C. 20003

410

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

IN 50955 DocId: 32202115 Page 21

I can't even be sure of tha

but

my recollection is by and

large of subsidiaries of us. compantes which do not guarantee

their subsidiary bondse

Mr. Wides.

Thanx

you.

Mr. Maxwell., I wouldlike to go through some of the

material in the Olsen case. And I have marked as Houston

Exhibit 5 the excerpts from the IG's diary which I showed you

before.

(The document referred to was

marked Houston Exhibit No.

for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

