# 157-10008-10143

## Page 1

157-10008-10143

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:

2/23/201

JFK Assassination System

Identification I'orm

Agency Inform.ition

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10143

RECORD SERIES: ""MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-2553-202

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRENNAN, W.C.

TO: SULLIVAN, W.C

TITLE: RE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD / INTERNAL SECURITY - R

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS

11/27/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

MEXICO CITY

INTERNAL SECURITY

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

SOVIET CONTACTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

02/19/1994

Box 466-15

,. :......

vº.1

NW 47129

DocId: 32203651

Page.1

18

---

## Page 2

08a 680

UNITED SINTESC

SUEDELLEN

35X

Memorandum

Taison

DECIASSICA CAN AND/08

RELEASE GE CIA NIFORM

IM, THIS: DOGUMENT TB H:3 19-2

No C. Sullivan

DATE: November

Is suratee

75032210 KSR

Tavel

ALT: ITZOFMATION CONTAINED

141723

Trotter

FROM

Mr. Do J. Brennan, J555

HERN TS UNCI ASSTETED EXCE

Tale. Prom

Sandy

(I54

I SHOWN DIERITER

SUBJECT

115N÷ES

LEE HARVEY OSHALD

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

Cassited by 9803-2

Declassify on: OADR

Reference is made to my

memorandum dated 11/23/63

setting

forth Central Intelligence Agency's

(CIA) information portainins to

the subject's contacts with the Sciet Embassy in toxico City.

referenced memorandum urther indicated that subject had been in contas

rat ban ten stay caviet as vico the dead meat in 5o

which handles sabpiage and assass: ations.

The Liaison Agent irs

instructed to obtrin from CIA lie nature and extent of the Agercy's

coverage,

of the Sovict and Cuban Labassies in lerico ard

(5)

also to inquire concerning the existence of similar coverage on ourer

embassies. Tie Agent ties also jerlestea to check

with cia concer.ir÷

any additional information pertr.:ing to lostikov's connection with

'e KGB Departrient described above.

The following information was

-urnished to the Liaison Agenü on 11/27/63 by Birch O'Neal, CIA.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

114193 dol

_.. I RELEASE IN FULL

* RELEASE IN PART

3 TOTAL DENIAL

coverage on the installatio.s

Any such coverage could. only =e

1B

per

DELETIONS

18857

.:CIA

does not have

of other countries

in Mexico City.

Iritiated for a special case (5)

#ith regard to Kostitiov's connection with the 13th Dega-irer:

of, the KGB, which handles savour:: and assassinations, Cla's

is based on data developed both

the Bureau and CIA.

Infor.a1:..

developed by•ClA has convinced th Adency stand any.

reasonabic

that kostikov is an official of :?

pureau and il:

know that the

a the ire.

operatic?

in contact with hostilioy iro

- The sane. -

ПРАДСВ

In contact withe

sure City.

Througn our sorrid

XS)

1

-Ir.

Belmont

• SENSITIVE

т..

REG-

Mr.

Sullivan ??,

FOREIEN

I - Mr. Branigan

INTELLIGENCE

SOURCE

1 - Mr. Turner

= Liaison

1 - 1. Papich

SPbuS /53 DEC 11-79S3 SEIRET

225 DEC 9 ISES

STE ADDENDUN PAGE THO

NW 47129 DocId:32203651 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Menórandun to Mr. Sullivan

RE: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

SENSITIVE, FOREIEN INTELLIGENCE SOURCE

agreed that this is possible. Neither we nor CIA have absolutely

established that Kostikov is specifically connected with the 13th

Department.

ACTION:

For information.

JENDON

DOMESTIC INTELLIGRICS DIVISICH

11/27/63

SJP: 512

per

"N's

SENSITIVE

FOREIGN

INTELLIGENO:

SOURCE

SECRED

NH 47129 DocId: 32203651 Page 3

---

