# 157-10008-10259

## Page 1

157-10008-10259

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:

2/23/201

Agency Inform. tion

AGENCY: SSCIA

• RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10259

RECORD SERIES:

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-116395

Document Info ination

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: COINTELPRO

DATE: 07/18/1975

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

COINTELPRO

FBI MATERIAL

COUNTERINTELLINGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : . Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1994

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

N9.1

NH 47129 DocId: 32203767

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

СтОН

SECRET

UNITED STATES DE 'ARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAT OF INVESTIGATION

WASBING ON. D.C. 20535

R559:

10259

62-116395

July 18, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTE LIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE: DOCUMENTS PEF TAINING TO THE

"HUSTON PLAN, ' COINTELPRO, AND

2-17-44 OTHER PRACTIC IS AND PROGRAMS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMIER

HERE!"! IS UNCLASSIFISA

SENT WHERE SHOWE

Reference is made :o memorandum from captioned

Committee dated May 14, 1975, aid the appendices thereto, which

contained requests for information from the Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI).

Item 17, Part I, Aypendix C, requested the

Committee be provided all memorida and other materials pertaining

to the origin and implementation o all Cointelpro Programs including,

but not limited to, the seven progr ims set out in the airtel from the

FBI Director to SAC, Albany, dated April 28, 1971, entitled "'Counter-

intelligence Programs (Cointelpro:), Internal Security - Racial

Matters."

Enclosed are 23 doc ments which could be considered

as originating of implementing doc iments for Cointelpros. These con-

sist of nine Headguarters memorar da and 14 communications to field

offices. Eleven of these documents are classified "Secret." Ten of

the documents (three memoranda a d seven communications to field

offices) have previously been publi ized through Freedom of Informa-

tion Act actions, although the publi:ized documents contained excisions

which have not been made in the attached documents.

SE

57?

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 2/26/24 del

CI RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

OTAL DENIAL

SECRET

Classified by 6243

RECEIVEN 5o..

JUL 25 .,

FBI

Exempt from GUY

Category Number 3

Date of Declassification indefinite

NATIONAL SECURr'Y INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Crim nal Sanctions

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Documents Pertaining to the "Ht ston Plan,"

Cointelpro, and Other Practices and Programs

These documents may be described as follows:

I CPUBA PROGRAM.

paragraphs of the above memorandum indicate prior action had

other than disruptive ac long, believed to have been conducted on

a very limited scale in onjunction with our continuing investiga

tion of the Communist Party, and were not implemented under

any iormalized Cointelp:0.)

2. Memorandum from Mr. 1 H. Belmont to Mr. Lo V. Boardman,

dated 9/5/56, captioned "CP

USA, Counterintelligence

Program, " classified "l'ecret."

3. Letter to SAC, New Yort, dated 9/6/56, captioned "Communist

Party, USA - Counterini elligence Program, " classified "Secret."

I. SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY PROGRAM.

i Letterto SAC Tup 20 102 /

New Yorl, dated 10/12/61, captioned "Socialist

I. DIBRUPTION OF HATE GRO JPS PROGRAM.

• Memorandum from Mr. ?. J. Baumgardner to Mr. W. C

captioned "Counterintelligence Pro

"classified "Secret.'

& Letter to Be dant, late // a cou Counter

IV. BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS PROGRAM.

%. Letter to SAC, Albany, dated 8/25/67

capuloned "Counter-

ntelligence Program, Black Nationalist - Hate Groups."

SECRET

SẺT

DIST

RECEIVE

Il. 25 1975

FBI

---

## Page 4

Ic

per

FBI

SECF.ET

Documents Pertaining to the "Hus ton Plan, "

Cointelpro, and Other Practices und Programs

8. Memorandum from Mr. G. C. Moore to Mr. W. C. Sullivan,

dated 2/29/68, captioned "Counterintelligence Program,

Black Nationalist - Hate Groups. "

9. Airtel to SAC, Albany, da ed 3/4/68, captioned "Counter-

intelligence Program, Black Nationalist - Hate Groups. "

V. DISRUPTION OF NEW LEFT I'ROGRAM.

10. Memorandum from Mr. C D. Brennan to Mr. W. C. Sullivan,

dated 5/9/68, captioned "‹ 'ounterintelligence Program,

Disruption of the New Left. "

11. Letter to SAC, Albany, dated 5/10/68, captioned "Counter-

intelligence Program, Disruption of the New Left."

VI. [SOVIET-SATELLITE INTELLI ENCE PROGRAM.](5)

12. Memorandum from Mr. F. J. Baumgardner to Mr. W. C.

Sullivan, dated 7/14/64, captioned Counterintelligence Program

[soviet-Satellite Intelligenie)l" classified "Secret. '(S)

13. Airtel to SACs, New York, Chicago, and Washington Field

classified "Secret."

dated 7/15/04, captioned "Contelpro goriet-Satellite Intelligence). (S)

VIL. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ANI › SPECIAL, OPERATIONS.

14, Letter to SAC, San Franclico, dated 4/2/69, captloned "Counter-

intelligence and Special Operations."

15. Letter to SAC, San Franchico, dated 5/11/70, captioned

"Counterintelligence and Secial Operations

RECE" -

JUL 25 1915

CHIT

-3-

F.BI

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Documents Pertaining to the "Hi ston Plan, "

Cointelpro, and Other Practices and Programs

(It is noted the above can lot be strictly defined as a Cointelpro-

type program.

The file vas maintained for control purposes

for use in encouraging a variety of intelligence and counter-

intelligence activities primarily directed against foreign or

foreign- influenced elements. The above two communications

are indicative of operatioas considered in this file of a

domestic character.)

VIL. MEXICAN PROGRAM (BORDER COVERAGE).

16. Letter to SAC, San Diego dated 1/9/61, captioned "Counter-

intelligence - Border Coverage Program, " classified "Secret. "

EX. YUGOSLAV PROGRAM!(5)

17. Memorandum from Mr. F. D. Cotter to Mr. W. C. Sullivan,

dated 2/3/69, captioned "Counterintelligence and Special Operations

(Nationalities Intelligence - Yugoslav Matters), " classified

"Secret.!

18. Letter to SAC,

Chicago, dated 2/5/69, captioned "Counter-

telligence and Special Operations Nationalities Intelligence

"gosay Matters, Classified "Secret. 1 S

CUBAN MATTERS PROGRAM (S)

19. Memorandum from Mr. S. B. Donahoe to Mr. W. C. Sullivan,

dated 8/3/61, captioned " Jubay Matters - Counterintelligence

Program, " classified "Serret.

20. Letter to SAC, New York, dated 8/7/61, captioned "Cuban

Matters - Counterintelligence Program, " classifted "Secret, "(S)

SE

CR 5T

RECTIT

JUL 25 1975

F B1

---

## Page 6

SE CRET

Documents Pertaining to the "Hl.ston Plan, "

Cointelpro, and Other Practices and Programs

XI. GROUPS SEEKING INDEPENDENCE FOR PUERTO RICO PROGRAM.

21. Letter to SAC, San Juig, dated 9/13/60, captioned "Groups

Seeking Independence for Puerto Rico (Counterintelligence

Program), " classified "Secret."

XI. HOODWINK PROGRAM.

22. Memorandum from Mr. F. J. Baumgardner to Mr. W. C.

Sullivan, dated 10/4/6ti, captioned "Hoodwink,"

23. Letter to SAC, New Ycrk, dated 10/5/66, captioned "Hoodwink."

Administrative in ormation has been excised from the

bove documents. Also, in three instances, rererences to sources hav

een excised. A sentence in the initiating document (memorandum date

7/14/64)for the Soviet-Satellite Intelligence Program has been excised S

to delete reference to a sensitive: counterintelligence operation with

foreign ramifications. In the ev int the Committee desires, an oral

briefing will be provided regarding the information excised.

Enclosures (23)

RECE™

SECRET

JUL 25 1975

FBI

---

