# 157-10005-10360

## Page 1

(157-10005-10360)

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992]

Date: 10/07/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10360

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: FBI

TO : SSCIA

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM/MATERIAL/CHRONS

DATE : 00/00/76

PAGES : 132

SUBJECTS :

MATERIAL/MEMO PROVIDED TO SSCIA FROM FBI AS REQUESTED - 1963

SUBJECTS INCLUDE CUBA AND OSWALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32202550

---

## Page 2

: 4: 50

SSCI BOX #

3775

RE: MORETICY SO SAVAG MATTERS

2.Y

of the can connerist Pasty, ediaciazared ce the stripping

of rente end postrica of Voice Araa2:30 A262022RAS.

AMSTURZRAS NSC 3

Leng-time talena of Fazza GAdoRo and the

Cutar reviester

and me the fared daded cf the Cuban

Natioral Revelriterary Fairdee

=e vas removed in about

1962 1rd giver

take to

Eurose wrich ias

inborded to bring about his better

undanstenning of Connunion ari indoctriration with the

same.

F15

comere in Charth 1s

verbite"

('The

Little narcis

which is a ridiciare stenning from his

rotoriery as

2 rantides

101 2-i calied actertion

to tre fact thas 2i1

ce 1n2c1323431 yoès have been know

to tre pilice 20a2

before choradle gavent to power,

but

16 15 caly now unst his vices,

coorrobness, ans misconduct

form SAlfcier Peason 102 nis Peroval -rom am positions

of aucharity.

The edttorial in "arero" stated that this action

was due to hia 1zrosp0110ie condict and

ine

great term

he was doing to nie om prestrau

ant thas of the revolution

by marialing friendy restore ton

Canti-scolai elements,

vagabones,

and corruot indevtducas"

15 nee

then noted that

AMECUSIRAS had had a close farencurio and associatica with

former kajor FOoD, CuBEL,

mentloned above as under

trial for plotting to kill 550a0

susie sad crestheck the

government.

Ine aroicie bushad mat the conduct si

AMEIJZ2545 wes ancorpstanle cath tre rank or Meror in she

Rebel Army!

vlee arister of she Lamed Forder. "end above

all, with thes of beirg a menher of the Tenorzi committee

of the commundat Farty to which ne was erested 17

recognition of his outsiarding han record, his terribie

suffering in which he lost those brocherg

in the struggle,

and with the nope

that he would mere a raximum effort to

overcome his detectei

MM I-2,

a sourne with many year experience as

both a police

and private investigate

and who raintains

contact with

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RECE: 7 FROM

DECLASSIPICATION AMD/0A

RELEASE OF TIS DOCUMENT

MẢY C: 1976 •

DOI

K3/19198

HW 50955

DooId: 32202550 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(

SSCI BOX #

377=

FE: MERCAFT AO 14166 M922373

some scranes da Cute, sadorac

Areth i

1956, that

FEDEL CHORS 10 ECSCROSSEE:

when tie

tra

physician,

Major F293/:i

1.32 Margarian reless.

L 20 4i

-minise married

DEX1

= member ef

the Sentral

1=133

Fanty, 303

nether do the tien commitse

2. y

Farty.

vw D-2 atated that one so the righ cfficials

of the Pebel iray who comesty took suns in Boceraanying

FIDEL CAS080

has srips tracushott the country and

In the capitor

which the read

163019!

dest undevorarly upon the greference

cuber novernmons not appects to piace

in these three persons,

especialed EARD ard

they consider to be riding, on the victor's

"band wagon"

without being true

"camindate inacter da

their scatticat

Ideals are

sorceranda

2ids Head-ay 1a÷ 203

reached such

canist to 141kh0ls. secure

control and dorresdon of ina bonan Borice, Cut 1t 12 8

dissicent fabor 2: 1a 1662

MM T-2 Crored bret Jurine Mess te b2e tire wher

FICE: CASORO was attemptire to overchace the gottramers

Of FUSCENORS BATISSA,

Guar

"1G EAG FAIRE CROMON

resided sogeches ir

Meer's

Chey were intimate friends

and both and miend neported by catches

phys:0152,

t: bo efferinate and comes perpenis.

FAURS

t0 one Goriet Ualon.

He was then a

mandater af connuisaidans, and now a Micloser

of tarsporsatton and also a maruer un the pertra: commattee

of the Cuban Coremunist Farty.

I: m-a abased that 1t covid

ROLANDO CUESIAS Pay how isa

oder tele crone doma peastler of title and

authority

1B

Rican

CM

Si6

18?

IF 50955

DooId: 32202550

Page 3

---

