# 176-10036-10109

## Page 1

176-10036-10109

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10109

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE: 7/8/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam,7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

135 1

TELEGRAM

2E C821

This, mate

.contains..in

ransmu

ОБРіВЕ!

INTORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGINCE AGENCY

ion allecting

lation e!

NationalEDöfe

? withinälther meaning

uthor

CLASSIFICATION

- DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Filled In)

DOWNGRADED PER N4S:B9:159/09 12

COUNTRY

SOUTH.VIE.TNAM

VPEE REPORT NO. "TDCS-3/552,822*

JC7022

SUBJECT A MILLIARY

FOR. OVERTHROW

DATE DISTR.

8 JuLr 1963

THE DIEM REGIME SEA

DONE WORSES 10455 2X2S INS

: GONE HONKEE"

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

"DATE OF.E

INFO.

IN

8 JULY 1963

74898

..---FIELD REPORT NO._ VS. 9263

THIS. UNEVALUATED INFORMÄTION. "SOURCE GRADINGS'ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL'OF CONTENT IS TEI

SOURCEDY CANCAMERZCAN TOBSERVER (e) CAROM DONORA

_ 2* DOM VOMILIED KUCHERCE ON INE EXIZIENCS ON DINEE SUONGE

COM MESME

Sit DiD Mon

MAJOR GENERAL TRÄN VAN DON, COMMANDER OF THE THIRD CORPS ARLA,

CECILE ILES LHEA MONTO BE KITTED CE MEMBER ENTE

ANOTHE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, SAID ON O JULY 1963 THAT THERE*

WAS A MILITARY PLAN FOR AN OVERTHROW OF THẺ GOVERNMENT AND

THAT.

EXCEPT FOR ONE OR TWO GENERAL OFFICERS, ALL WERE IN AGREEMENT

THE PLAN CONSTSTS OF A MILITARY RULER ADVISED BY

10 00 2 DEE COMO BECONE C

THREE •

THE NOMINAL LEADER WOULD BE UNABLE TO TAKE ANY ACTIONE*

НО ЗНЕ БЕСЬГЕ КУЛОНЕВ: ЗНЕ СОЛЕНИЕИ! ПАЦОВИЛИ ЛЕГА ЗУТВО

WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE COMMITTEE.

DON DID

NOT SPECIFY. THE TIMING OF THE ACTION BUT SAID THAT

HE D: D"NOT PLAN TO LEAVE

ANA COCHELON THE SATGON AREA

CON AREA FOR THE NEXT TENIDAYS,

BEZE MALESCLE Ot

DISSEI

SECRET WA

NATION CONTROLS

693

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TEP INA'

DIA

JES

SECDE

ID

US 1A

OC1

OCR

OBili

lävingie

EXC

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

FORM

10-62

(15.

M0081

---

## Page 3

35

74898

LASSIFICATION - DISSAMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

"whe

wed me

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOES -3/552

1930 203039

3:

3 DON SAID THAT THE REASON:

MILITARY TAKEOVER WAS

THAT PRESIDENT DIEM HAD FAILED TO ACT IN THE, BEST INTERSTS OF

NE. D19 M03

VIETNAM ON THE OCCASION OF THE 8 MAY BUDDHIST INCIDENT IN HUE.

ZECHLA IRE

LIVING OLE LAE TOLLOW DI

THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD HAVE ADMITTED ITS MISTAKE

AND MADE AMENDS

Му¿чолі

70650305

OR HE CONTINUEE"

TO THE PEOPLE INVOLVED; THE GOVERNMENT UNFORTUNATELY FAILED

TO DO THIS AND PERMITTED THE INGIDENT TO BECOME A NATIONAL ISSUE

THE MILITARY MUST ACT IN ORDER TO PREVENT THE

VIET CONG FROM FAKING

EX0762

. LOX ONE 05 1M0

MET МЕКЕ

iPt

VOSSEMSEAL

FULL ADVANTAGE OF THE CONTINUING BUDDHIST PROBLEM.

FIZ # NICHIVER KEVI LOS # DESION 0E HE СОЛЕВИЕН

DON EMPHASIZED THAT THE ENTIRE NGO "FAMILY MUST BE ELIMINATED

VENICE LHE MENETIC DE ALELIN SMID O4 8 TITA 1003

BUT DID NOT SPECIFY WHETHER THEY WOULD BE KILLED OR MERELY EXILED

FROM VIETNAM.

7:55

DON ADMITTED KNOWLEDGE OF THE EXISTENCE OF OTHER GROUPS

PLANNING THE OVERTHROW OF THE GOVERNMENT, BUT DISMISSED TRAN

TAKIM TUYENIS GROUP ASIA MYOUNG GROUP.

SAG. FACCORDING TO DONE ONE PROBLEM INVOLVESTHE NIOR OF ICERS TANE

INAMONG WHOM THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF DISSATISFACTION, AND, ONE OF

IVITHE SEVERAL STAGES OF THE MILITARY PLAN INCLUDES MEANS OF

1992

SATISFYING THIS GROUP OF OFFICERS.

toscaperce

CM69541A

7- SHHEN THE MILITARY GROUP ASSUMES POWER OVER THE GOVERNMENT,

ELECTIONS WILL BE ANNOUNCED IMMEDIATELY AND WIEL BE HELD FROM

-ZOILA: A L0J77

THREE O-S MONTHS FOLLOWING THE TAKEOVER OF POVERSE 22 ES

8C FIELD DISSEM.

STATE (CHARGE D'AFFATRES ONLX)

USMACY

CARACKAN

2S (CENERAL HARKINS ONLY) FACINGRAC

END: OF MES

SECRET

3 HIEGN DISSE

---

