# 176-10036-10062

## Page 1

176-10036-10062

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10062

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE : 8/8/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 58: Cuba Subjects Shipping 8/63-9/63. Box

1

---

## Page 2

PREVIOUS

SANITATION'S UPHELES +4-01-058-1-87%11

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

ormation-aflecting the. National

Dolenso - of the

1v14."

150.912

United • States iithin

or revelation

of which in any

manner

to 'an

und uthorited

person

the

meaning.0f-tha-Espionogo-Lous-Jdia-18.-U.S: CcaSecs.

is- prohibited

by-low.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(When Filled 116)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM Cuba +$

COUNTRY

JAPAN / CUBA: / CHINA

REPORT NO. IDCS=3/555,764

SUBJECT

CUBAN ATTEMPT TO PERSUADE JAPANESE SHIP-

DATE DISTR.

8. AUGUST 1963

PING EURMS TO RESUME DIRECT: SERVICE BE-

16r31

TWEEN JAPAN AND CUBA

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

LATE JUNE TO EARLY AUGUST 1963

REFERENCES

9=5%

IN

INFO., S

953.78

PLACE &

JAPAN, TORTO (3 AUGUST 1963)

DẠTE ACO URE2

APPRAISAL

SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. FUT 9363

1B. THIS iS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.: SOURCE: GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. •APPRAISAL OF CONTENT•IS TENTATIVE:-

SOURCE

A JAPANESE BUSINESSMAN (C) ASSOCIATEd WITH LEFTiST BUSiNESS CIRCLES, FROM

A UMEHARA ALROYUKI, AN OFEICIAL OFITHE JAEC SECRETARIATSSIEE YESE

APPRALSALS. UMEROR@S-ACCOUNT OF REVUELTARS INTEREST AND ATTEMPTSIS PROBABLY

FACTUAL AND ACCURATELY REPORTED.

DESARA CHERY TO CORE CECe O

SUNMARY, A CUBAN SHIPPELNG OFF IGLAL HAS BEEN IN, JAPANELL 28X1:56

SINCE LATE JUNE 1963 CRYING TO PERSUADE THE FIVE JAPANESE, SHIPPING, LINES

THAT HAD DIRECT, SERVICE BETWEEN JAPAN AND CUBA BEFORE THE UNITED STATES

QUARANTINE: TO RESUME: THEIR OPERATIONS:: IN VIEW OF THE PRESENT SMALL.

VOLUME OF EXPORTS TO, CUBA, THE JAPANESE: SHIPPING LINES EARE SHOWING NO 1:9

INTEREST IN THE CUBAN, PROPOSAL:: THE LATEST MOVE BY THE CUBAN OFFICIAL

WAS A SUGGESTION THAT ASTRIANGULAR -ROUTE LINKING JAPAN, CUBA, AND

CHINA BE ESTABLLSHED AND SERVICED BYLUAPANESE SHIPSEIAN OFELGIAL OF

EADING JAPANESE SHIPPING COMPANY COMMENTED THAT THE PROPOSAL WOULD

CONFIDENTIAL

CUASSHCANO FOREIGN DESER

SEMINATION CONTROLS::

GROUP .!i.

Exctudad.:froii.ou

doingioding. and

declarifratión

STATE/INR--DIA.

ARMY/ACS'-MAVY--AIR-ICS ' SECOEF-

-NSA-

EXQ:

STATE/DIR KITEFBI.

I&NS

TREASURY 29

PT REP CINCLAN

73

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPÖRT TELEGRAM

3

FORM

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL S

CASSICATIONE DISSEMINAION CONTROLS

1004

(WEEN FILLED IN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

F0C3-3/555-764

N.05378

PAGE

CoHbD9/117

1251

0H 3233

N

7770175

-592 2113570 4H74

20 NEXT/ IST THE 9305033

4.2:7

sons :

ACHO

BE WORTH CONSIDERATION: FaCHINA-COULD PROVIDE SUFFICIENT CARGO, TO OL

MAKEY THE CHINA-JAPAN LEGIOF, THE ROUIE-PROFITABLE MYSEND SaY: WIS

WHO ARRIVED: OLDAFAN UNELATE DUNE ANDaLATER, WAS ASSIGNED OTHE, SHIPPING

DEPARTMENT OF JHENCUSAN ERADECLHSSTON INTOKYO: GOLDIDAPAN ASIAGAFRICA

ECONOMIE COUNCILE AAC) OFFIANS HATEUBASY SEDISSATISE LED, WITH THERE

¡CURRENT ARRANGEMENTE OF& ROUTING SHUEMEN SITO CUBA WWAVNAKHODKAGDAND TIMEZ

THATICUBA WANTSHUARANESERSHIPPINGLES O RESUME RECT SERVICE

BETWEEN JAPAN AND CUBA, EITHER BY JAPANESE SHIPS OR BY CUBAN-CHARTERED,

THIRD-COUNTRY SHIPS MANNED BY JAPANESE CREWS.

ВОСАЛУГ УНО УССПУЧЕГА ЧЕСАНЕЙ

2O6 THEFVENUAFANESE: SHIRPINGELINES THATCHAD REGULAR AND DIRECTITA

SERVICE:BETWEEN NAPAN AND GUBABEFORE THE UNITED STATES QUARANTINE

HAVER THUSEARTSHOWN NO TINTERESTES/NnHE. GUBANISUGGESTION SOLELY BECAUSE

DYL THE PRESENT MONTHLY VOLUME OF 2,808 TONS WOULD NOT MAKE OPERATIONS.

MEOPROF I TABLE AND NOT BECAUSE OF POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS.

DT1E ON

SELESENCE?

3.

REVUELTA SAID HE COULD CHARTER IN LONDON SHIPS THAT HAVE BEEN.

LASSA

NSECESENCE

BLACKLISTED BY THE UNITEDESTATES «BUTE EXPRESSED DOUBT THAT THE ORIGINAL

CNN VILENAL LE BEGGINE

173002E-3416

DVLE DIZ25

CREWS WOULD BE

WILLING.

TO WORK

THESE

SHIPS.

HE SAID MẮNNING: OF

THESE

IC: -2202101

SHIPS-WITH-CUBAN-GREWS-WOULD-BE DIFF-IEULT-BECAUSE-OF-A-SHORTAGE-OF-

42554165987 111

SHIT PHAND'S IN CUBA.

THEREFORE ON

SAL DENS PREFERRED TO BRING THE

MANCO BE INSANESE CREWS MINTEC OFFICIAL LIMEHARA

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

TUSE PREVIOUS

@EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

<5541 NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NUATION: OF TDCS INFORMATION REP

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/555,764

IN

95378

PAGE

3

HIROYUK! TOLD REVUELTA THAT RECRUITMENT OF JAPANESE CREWS WOULD BE.

FEASIBLE IF THE CONTRACT TERMS WERE ATTRACTIVE.

4. THE LATEST PROPOSAL SUBMITTED BY REVUELTA TO JAAEC OFFICIALS

CALLS FOR A TRIANGULAR ROUTE LINKING JAPAN, CUBA, AND CHINA. UNDER

THIS PROPOSAL, A JAPANESE SHIP WOULD CARRY JAPANESE EXPORTS TO CUBA,

LOAD SUGAR IN CUBA FOR SHIPMENT TO CHINA AND JAPAN, PROCEED TO CHINA

TO UNLOAD SUGAR FOR CHINA AND LOAD CHINESE EXPORTS. TO JAPAN, AND THEN

RETURN TO JAPAN.

• 5.: WHEN UMEHARA TOLD A MITSUI LINE OFFICIAL OF REVUELTA'S LATEST

PROPOSAL, THE SHIPPING OFFICIAL COMMENTED THAT THE IDEA WAS INTERESTING.

HE THOUGHT THAT. THE VOLUME OF SUGAR SHIPMENTS TO CHINA AND JAPAN

WOULD: BE. ENOUGH TO OFFSET THE SMALL. VOLUME OF CARGO BETWEEN JAPAN

AND CUBA, BUT EXPRESSED DOUBT OVER THE AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT

CARGO TO MAKE THE CHINA-JAPAN LEG OF THE TRIANGULAR ROUTE PROFITABLE

- FOR JAPANÉSE SHIPPING COMPANIES.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCPAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC STATE ARMATT

-NAVATT AIRATT USFU USARU COMNAVU 5AF 6499SG DO46/0SI 5DDICG,i

CINCSO, CINCLANT:

CONFIDENTIAL

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FORM IX-I

. 1-63

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

END OF: MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

MFG. 2-63

(15-20-44-47)

---

