# 176-10036-10117

## Page 1

176-10036-10117

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 -

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10117

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE : 7/18/1963

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM

SECRET

CC When Fled 111

•SEE SANITIZED VERSION+ DOWNERADED-NL18-89-15

12296: 290: 70053

12457

65

INT

ARMATION REPURT

1D 17K2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY COM

TELEGRAM

овід

a._mesning:of._lhe.aEsprondge.aLous.ri

- U:S.C=50c8:

He went

rohibited br lavi

"CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

* NO FOREIGN, DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SUBJECT

MAN CUTES. TUAT ON AIN ON THE NE ON CIATE DISTR EB MIX 1963ECRNVC

nOW A CHANGE IN THE COVERENT OF VIETNAM

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OFENDeL:13: 2216 JULY, 1963 COUL

LHT2 T2 IHE REFERENCES LIE NEVA FINE 82003

INFO.

SFE. BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO. TVS-9322 waiti

"THIS IS 'UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENT

SOURCE

APPR

GENERAL DUONG VAY, MINH PROBARLY HOLDS THESE MIEWS BAND

IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN DISGRUNTLED WITH THE

OF VIETNAM SINCE 1960,

iib

EVEN, THOUGH HO HAS NOT SORE XPRESSESHIME ANARE MOUSINET OFSOURCE (SPE, PARA. 2.8).

Man ON To JULY 1963 MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH,

MENTARY ADVISOR TO P

alsonce

LHE ENDDHIZ12

PRESIDENT DIEM, CRITTCIZED THE PRESIDENT, SAID

THAT HE LACKED THE SD:

ДНЕ ЗНИН ХАЛЕЙ

SOPPORT OF THE PEOPLE, AND ADVOCATED A CHANGE

THE REGIME HEUT OSSERTED THẮT NGO DINH NHU COULD NOT TAKE

OVER THE

GOVERNMENTE "HE ALSO SAID: THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WOULD

Est Divisio

GENERAL MINH MABE FHE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS:

FLIES PRESIDENT ONCH HAS CHANGED SO COMPLETELY THAT

BECONIC COMALICED CHUL HE MVE

LONGER POSSIBLE TO REASON WITH HIM.

LIME 1O HONE CHUNCEC INE

EOAEXANEWIL

IN THE EARLY DẠYS HE HAD THE

SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND WAS

34. 1020 HE HYD TOZI CONSELE COnCH MIR tHE

VERY FOPULAR THROUGHOUT SOUTH VIETNAM.

ЗEWЗНИL2 LOB ШНЕ АБОЛЕ ОБОСЕ ВЕ ІНЕ БОЛЕЕТ:

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRETE WH

GLASSIFIGATION - PISSEMINATION CONTROLSE

NO FOREION DISSEM/ N9 DISSEM ABROAD/BACKEROUND USE

ARMY/ACSI

MAYY

AIR

J65

SEEDEE

NSA

NIG

AID

YSIA

0g1.

ONE

9GR

. OAR.

0014÷00

TELEGRAM

INFORMATIO

NO REPORT

SON COMICAR

TELEGRAM

1K

' OBBOLSTA PREVIOUB M

ONMONG,

(16301

---

## Page 3

Frond ia

SECRET

when

'Filled

172)

ICATION

VATION CONT

NO FOREIGN. DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

BACKGROUND USE ONLYS

{DCS DB-3/655,

605.

TOTAL!

IL WAS-A SIMPLE MATTER AT THAT TIMENTO GA IN THE SÜPPORT OF THEME

PEASANTS FOR THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS OF THE GOVERNMENT:

**THEN HE BEGAN

SCREENING HIMSELF IN AND BY 1959 HE HAD LOST COMPLESE TOUCH WITH THE

PEOPLE.

THẤT MAY HAVE BEEN THE TIME TO HAVE CHANGED THE GOVERNMENT.

AFTER 1960 DIEM CHANGED COMPLETELY,

BECOMING CONVINCED THAT HE WAS

OPERATING UNDER A MANDATE FROM HEAVEN,

THIS WAS APPARENT IN HIS

REMARKS"

ONE VOLY WHEN HE SAID THAT THE COUNTRY WAS GUIDED BI

МНЕ ЛЕДЕЙ

THE GUOBATS ESSUE*, SO PILLUSTRATION OF DIEMES ERRATIONAL

ATT TUDE CIDIEM" FOLO MINH ON 13. UEY THAT THE BIRA XUYEN, THE HOA

HAO, AND PAL CÃO DAI WERE ALL STRONGER THAN

3040

THE BUDDHIST

THEY

HAD RECULAR ARMED

TROOPS BUTA THE GOVERNMENT WAS STILLABLE 210, 523•4

DE LAT THEM O MAN CANDI THE GOVERNMENT ALSO DEFLAS THE MONKS,

NON HO HAYIN HER ARMS NOR, MILATARY ORGANIZATION? OMINHC WAS UNABLE

VATE TO CONVINCENTHE PRESIDENT THAM THE SITUATIONS VERE NOI THE SAME AE

IVE BECAUSE OF THE RIGIDISIAND DIEM HAS TAKEN WITH REGARD TO THE

CIRE O BUDDHIST.STe (SOURGE COMMENT. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME MINH HAS MADE

SUCH STRONG, STATEMENTS AGAINST DILEM:)

*PROBLEME

BIS FAR FROM SETTLED U TS @ECOMiNG

ara WORSE AND UNL-ESS. THE GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS-POLACYOTHERE WILLeBE

ADDITIONAL: BUDDHI ST: SELEGIMMOLAT CONSTANEN VELC RÀDICACE CIRIO DRE QUEX

256ESAERE- MUST DE A GANGE NETI GOVERNENE

SOUTHE VIETNAV

HN1:1607, 70

FUsICE SIa M'THCLASSIFICATION * DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/ BACKCROUND USI ONLY

11M:G315

---

## Page 4

in crist

18

Tentaria tet

05201.113-004694

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

SECRETa -→*NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM: ABROAD

(.When Fulled In)

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCS DB-3/655;605**

iN 82003.

PAGE

3

IS LIKE A YOUNG TREE; IT HAS FIRM ROOTS AND IS GROWING BUT IT MUST

-HAVE A PROPER ATMOSPHERE SO THAT ITS LEAVES, I.E:, THE PEOPLE, CAN

BREATHE QUITHIS AS LACK ING TIN- SOUTH, VIETNAM.

?' E.LINGO DINHENHU CAN-NEVER TAKE OVER THE GOVERNMENT; SHOULD

THE SUCCEED, MIT WOULD PROVE THAT THE VIET CONG (VC) ARE RIGHT IN

PEOPLESMA (SOURCES COMMENTEZ MAJOR@GENERAL TRANSVAN DON E COMMANDINGS?'

GENERAL' OF THEFARMY,NAND" BRIGADIER: GENERAL LEVAN-KIM,SMIN/STRYH,a

OEHNATIONAL DEFENSE, PAREMMINHE SECLOSEFFRIENDS#) 10M AEA BIBONO

1N6O7E!INIGECPRESIDENTINGUYEN INGOCK THOSTOLD! MINHION 15-JULYHTHATN

ITAWAS VIRTUAELY IMPOSSIBLEMTOSOBTA INSAN' AGREEMENTVBETWEEN THEIVU

BUDDHISTSLANDSTHE@GOVERNMENTEBECAUSEETHE SELFERRIDEOF GERTAIN KEYAVA

INDINIQUAS/OYDED THEENHUSDANDYARCHBISHOP NGOVDNHTHUGWNHADE LHE

BECOME L'INVOLVED.

•THỌ HAS BEEN WANTING TO RESIGN 'BUT WAS NOT EVEN

RERMLTTED TOLSUBMIT AECETTEROOF LRESIGNATION, HESSTILL /ANTENDSCTOSH

GOWTHROUGH WITH LIT, CHOWEVERSS (FIEED/CONMENTOSCEVS=92435(0Dc3-3/552,503,

Hº : VRERORTEDETHAT VOLEM IHADSRECUSEDITO ACCEPT LTHOUS WRITEN

RESIGNATION, SUBMITTEDSON EJULY. FVS-9256, cs-3/552,565,;

REPORTED

THO IS STATEMENTWTHATHE EWANTED. TOERESIGN BUTWAS UNCERTAINHASOTO THE

TIMINGSILE LHE MINIME OL LHE MES YOVINEL INE NO IA HOL CITA V.

G.

IF. THE MILITARY PRESSURE AGAINST THE VC CAN BE CONTINUED

MANA THE, PRESENT RATEREOR CAYEAR, DTHE ARMY CAN DISRUPT THE VC ARMEDE A

07.6

DISSI

SECRET

SIVASNO TORBIGN DISSEM/NO DISSIM-ABROAD/BACKGROUND-USE-ONIY

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM /NO DISSEM ABROAD-

IN: 82003

- TDCSDB-3/655,605

when TeD 5O5001 BACKGROUND USE ONLY

CHEAP VEN

PASE : 4

1: 1-12 .

321681

13124

INSURGENTS. THE WINNING OF THE WAR AGAINST THE VE IS NOT SIMPLY A:

MILITARY: PROBLEM, HOWEVER, BUT ONE THAT REQUIRES THE SUPPORT OFO AME

THE: PEOPLE,' ANDITH| SIS-LACKING.

5206 + 2 225/233

NOSTROUBLE'S ANTICIPATED FROM THE VC ON THE 20 JULY CH

ANNIVERSARY OF -THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS, BUT STUDENTS FOO'

MIGHT_CAUSE TROUBLE BECAUSE ON THE SUICIDE OF OPPOSITIONISTENGUYEN

20. 457159

805. 173 701 ExEL

I BRIGADIER GENERAL-DO CAO TRI WILL REMAININ COMMANDCOF THE

ISTSINEANTRYCD IVISIONLEORETHE TIME DEING AND BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN

NGHIEM WILLOREMA IN IN COMMAND ORS CORPS, WHICHEPLACES NGHIEMEIN AN

IMPOSSIBLE POSITIONAS THENTWO MEN DO NOT GET ALONG WELL WITHlEACH

OTHER: ICTRTISEPROMOTION WAS DESERVED BECAUSE HE IS A VERY STRONG

BrONTER. OE(EIELDECOMMENT. EFVS=9302, toss-3/655) say REPORTED NHU'S

STATEMENT THATCRYCHAD/BEEN PROMOTED.AND NAMED/COMMANDER COFICEORPS.

EVS 9267, 1a065/550/05/3E BREPORTED NOHEM OCTATEMNT OF LIS DESIRE

TO RESTONEFROM THECARMEOHE HUL IRE NET COME (NE) VOE BICHI LA

3. FIELD DISSEMN STATES AMBASSADOR ENOLTING, USMAEV. /GENERAL

HARKINS ONLYPE INGFAE PAGFLT ARPAC /PACAR,"

...

1C012 aND 13 C50:140 enr: 11 1721

EASIEATEN - BUSEMINATION CONTROLT

3

IT 95283

SECRET.

---

