# 177-10002-10096

## Page 1

177-10002-10096

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/6/2018

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

L:BJ

177-10002-10096

NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

• TO :

CIA

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/25/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

DOC. #3

v9.1

---

## Page 2

TO

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE INITIALS

ames Mathis, Sper. Access, NARA Y19/5

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONOURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO. [SCINS-083/93 B]

COPy 2

OF.

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO

Jennifer Crodeback, U55 Librang Vis/is

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

---

## Page 3

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

25 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

1.

South Vietnam

a.

Vietnamese Communist forces

kept up their high post-coup

level

activity over the weekend.

b. The most significant action

was an attack early yesterday morn-

ing against a US special forces train-

ing camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

c. When the smoke cleared after

a sharp fight, four US soldiers were

missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese

were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the

Viet Cong shot down two aircraft sup-

porting a government operation in

the extreme south, and damaged twelve

more.

Two more Americans are missing

in this action.

e. Back in Saigon, the new re-

gime's

troubles with the ambitious

General Ton That Dinh continue.

He is still angling to get

control of the important strategic

hamlet program and has yet to give

up command of the Third Corps, which

the generals assigned to another of

their number earlier in the month.

This corps is of particular signifi-

cance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 5

BUR

AMBOBIAN

South

etnam

Mante rig

HAILAND

MALAYSIA

mper

South

China•

Sea •

BRUNEL

Sarawak p

MA

SINGAPORE

RI AU

ISLANDS &

ORNEO

N

D

N

ELSI

Java

Sea

Djakarta

PINES

'Sabak

Celebes Sea

CEN

Banda

Sea

631124

INDIAN

OCEAN

MALAYSIA

CONFIDENTIAL

MILES

34176

soro

TIMOR

---

## Page 6

2.

Indonesia-

Malaysia

3.

Venezuela

Sukarno is beefing up the

subversive aspects of his confronta-

tion campaign against Malaysia.

b.

Intercepted Indonesian mes

sages indicate that regular army

units will shortly begin infiltration

operations across the border into

Sarawak and Sabah.

c.

Seven thousand regular army

troops in Indonesian Borneo, the

are getting an inten-

messages show in guerrilla tactics.

sified course

This training is to be completed

next month.

d. Other messages speak of

the arriv se

the arrival, beginning today, of a

battalion of regulars from West Java.

(INTERCEPTS throughout)

The weekend was marred only

by sporadic and minor acts of ter-

rorism in several cities.

Govern-

ment security forces have the situa-

tion generally under control.

b. The Venezuelan Air Force

is stepping up its efforts to track

down and destroy intruder aircraft.

The Venezuelans are convinced that

planes have been ferrying supplies

to pro-Castro guerrillas in the

mountains of the northwest.

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont ' d)

---

## Page 7

Amuay:

reyert ri

OM-B-LV

VENEZUELA

6309195

100

200 Mlies

200 Kllometers

66

64

62

EGRENDA

60

_ x2

TOBAGO

Cit La Asunción

• Cardpano.

TRINIDAD

Barcelongo Puerto LiC

El Calvario

!...

L

---

## Page 8

4.

Iraq

a.

The air of tension in Bagh-

dad dissipated somewhat after the

government lifted the curfew and once

again permitted private vehicles on

the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its

new rulers are, however, at ease.

Troops are still very much in evi-

dence.

C.

The new regime apparently

is not convinced that the hard core

of the Baath Party and its paramili-

tary supporters have been put down

for good.

5.

Syria

a.

We have information that a

showdown between the moderate and

extremist

factions of the ruling

Baath

Party in Syria is fast approach-

ing.

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 9

6.

b. A clandestine source identi-

fies Prime Minister Hafiz as the

leading figure on the side of modera-

tion.

General Umran heads the doc-

trinaire extremists.

c. It was a split along the

same lines that brought about the

Baath Party's fall from power in

Iraq.

Italy

Premier-designate Moro ex-

pects that the program for a "center-

left" coalition government will be

approved today by the four parties

involved.

b. Details of the foreign

policy planks are not yet available,

but they were drafted with the

thought that the death of President

Kennedy makes it more important for

Italy to play an active role within

the Western alliance.

c.

After the program has been

approved, the final selection of a

cabinet can be undertaken. This

could take the rest of the week.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 10

I CAIRO

IRAQ

JORDAN

KUWAIT

KUWAIT.

NEUTRAL

ZONE

Zohran

@izän

Horod

Maydi

Abs

Hajjah

KAMARAN

(U.K.);

Al Hudaydah

Mocha

ETHIOPIA,

FRENCH ®

SOMALILAND

MAR

(EGYPT)

Aswan .

* Ras

Banas

SAUDI ARABIA

Noiran

Saddh

- Major road

Other. road or track

STATUTE MILES

UNCLASSIFIED

100

Wadi.

Umran

Raudha

→ Marib

SANA

Sirwah

Jihannah

Harib

Ibb.

Qatabah

Al Baydo

TAIZZ

Ad Dali

PROTECTORATE;

HOẾT

i FADEN

CETTE NOt

*RIYADH

Medina,

renbo?

Jidda!

SAUDI

ARABIA

l Oizan

Al Hudaydat'"

ETHIOPIA

STATUTE MILES

• Khamis Mushait

w Mairan

SANA

Al Bayda.

ADEN PROTECTORATE

~-*ADEN

CORROENDES

100

630801 3

YEMEN

1..

---

## Page 11

7.

UAR-Yemen-

Egypt

The Saudis told our embassy

in Jidda yesterday that a saudi vil-

lage near the Yemeni border was

tacked Thursday by Egyptian aircraft.

It was the second time this

into Saudi Arabia.

c. As in the previous cases,

phe saudith the on onservation -

sion.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 12

A.

B.

C.

NOTES

Oswald

Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey

Oswald recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-

Oswald visited both the

Cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September. He

was trying, we are told, to arrange for visas so

that he could travel to

the USSR via Havana. He

returned to the US on 3 October.

Brazil A new round of military promotions and re-

assignments will be made public today. The presen

instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-

flected in the numerous

reports of coup plots which

this

event has precipitated.

USSR

strumentation ships

Soviet range in-

D.

Algeria

We have a report from a good clandestine

with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Ber

Bella.

A growing estrangement between the two has

een apparent for some time, but this is the firs

rood indication that Boumedienne is making commo:

cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of

office.

(Cont ' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

## Page 13

E.

Australia - Communist China

Peiping has signed con-

tracts for just over one million tons of Australian

grain to be delivered early next year.

expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market,

since they had another mediocre grain crop this year.

Peiping has been buying close to five million tons

of grain for the past several years.

F. Congo

We hear that the Soviet Embassy in Leopold-

Ville had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels

last Saturday.

There is still no information on

whether any Soviet Embassy officials have actually

departed, however.

Berlin

There was no new harassment of Allied ac

cess routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of

16 flares were fired last evening near Tempelhof

Airfield, but we connect these with Communist ef-

forts to prevent escapes from East Berlin.

East

German police were observed stringing barbed wire

in the same area a short time later.

H. Laos

The neutralists claim to have made significant

gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

area.

They have not, however, been able to dislodge

the Pathet Lao from positions within artillery range

of the town's airport.

For The President Only - Top Secret

---

