# 178-10002-10469

## Page 1

178-10002-10469

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JK Assassination System

8/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER:

178-10002-10469

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (5)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

DCI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/10/1962

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

re intelligence source

v9.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32204646

Page

1

90

---

## Page 2

178-10002-10469

Lat low

indi lists one

EORET,

20:622

10 July 1962

D-22

MEMORANDUN FOR:

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Director of Centrol Intelligence

Deputy Director (Plans) yet

Juana (Juanita) CASTRO Ruz

1.

ACTION: None.

This memorandum is for your informa-

tion.

2.

In connection with Task Force l efforts to split the

Cuban

leadership,

some

time ago we targeted Juana: Castro Ruz,

halfesister.ofFidel.and Raul Castro"Ruz.

A number of reports

have been received indicating that

JuanarCastro tRuz opposed.

the strong communist nature of the

Cuban regime and was

prepared,

at least to-some extent, to

cooperate with anti-

regime elements.

In May 1962 we

reestablished contact with and

recruited MesaVirginia Lettao De Cunha, Cuban born wife of

the Brazilian ambassador topthe USSR and a long time personal

friend of Juana: Castro Ruz!

3.

On 11, June 1962, on our

instructions, Madame DenCunha

proceeded to lavana where she maintained frequent contact

with Juaña.Cas.tro.Ruz and

other

prominent Cuban leaders until

1 July 1952.

She discussed the

current regime quite frankly

with

Juaha Castro Ruz and,

according to Madame De Cunha, she

obtained Juana's agreement

to provide intelligence on

the

Cuban political leadership

and

to work

against the Cuban

communist

regime, short of

engaging in activity which might

result

in

direct

personal harm topherebrothers: Raul and Fidel.

According

to Madames Det Cunha, Juana has agreed

to proceed

to

Mexico

the United States

in this connection and retuin to

Cuba after discussions with

"the Americans"

Madames De Cunha

We are making the necessary arrangements with

to have Juana Castro Ruz proceed to Mexico as

as possible in order that we may attempt. a direct re-

cruitment.

You will be kept advised of any future develop-

ments of

importance in this

case.

FORD

LIBRAR

Willian darnes

WILLIAN K. HARVEY

C/TFW

SEORET

alsoul

FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD

LIBPARY

WH 50955 DocId:32204646 Page 2

---

