# 180-10143-10070

## Page 1

180-10143-10070

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

Buefing

2| 14|78

Bell Airklly. Wif of anforeton sures Staff

Хедина Тынес

релека 0.201

Operatel Is EDDODUCTION

Trave would be sated

Trace roduce one ni

2/ defd., not doeseates. As cauly b03,

He pedeal rider cerde.

lace offer - its the judgement. Haled attres wreter f

If the type of info. comes in, it would go unt inder

Here er cecter enters

1) Restrat

Her er some opatios, witted are ner out

care, a cace office in voled.

PRA. P.I -

PODUCTION

of leadquarts, is whees

, Pt.II -

The should i a dor undeting reactes why a pat, peere is not

леслита.

There should be a refue in Ist file to dowrent in and file if

there. is the.

0001742

SECRET

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

10143-10070

---

## Page 2

lip. in PRQI is if. elected frotts.

ontals ли. to а соситек

201 #'S all acclared

yould not contain season; would

эж- ну ал орина и зеэмення

Дос..

Kurew of 20128661hK.5.Person" - Selor ta lategoled

by a new of the fuce wring speye cra

PRAI dNA NOT DIGUY A PLIT.

• Norally PRAIS PRAII WoUld unet in the sasse fele. I PROII cAtala,

to which it reun

maistalked is separate file,

made

the entice 2o1 would lave

linited news?

Іже nme cryptyn Me nst maintained in the same cluet

On 201 ve. form, there, e nose for a cryptony, but it is not

filed in a have more dile.

the i rele quiete it end i see a lie

Treen liet Cuck: Info. gattered an is weet of STEINT A COMINT.

R lest clk: Al a separate click, but lefy doesnt know what it cleeks.

0001743

SECRET,

PAGE

COPY

NO.

0s 70

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Central

Arr. eten a so fough

деник ти, ялы с

If that purse wear

uld is some manne would, a ....

note gost. agesy o for military,

big.s

-

he co-id. of a project is which sott the CLAs

We say that it would aet dee s copse is siles

Frastler-

ANAC

DiR- affece of Cestral

nature are macitaired der

see of ships, things of illeginee

Вр i weld wet it of voteer

PiL: Buserved i Lunted - refers to commusations wheel are

Openist of Pih channel of cons. Is debtsused by one of 3 pessors

0001744

FAGS

_ 0i

COF NO.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Thie has always been tile te slic times, it may dair deer restucted

ну мне ужне реста.

Tis coamuniction say, in tike, the downgraded; may never te destityed.

Is it possible, in coatest of a II tillet, in lace of an hypottscal that sapp.

would not be compelled u.

maxy does. cond wait

not be compiled into a 201 if thes

abent apper to it a see,

Pseudo: false na

posed of corinnunication

Upts: Hold to id: ass

soldier so has given away mit, secrets; then defects, a a yele

would not Mesally have beer osked — it sight te a sill, maila

Is vally b0's, there was an littlet in defectors.

Davis depo ARced AL ZRRIFLE:

514 A york: requeet to put dre. it system

?1897

In of. suck as ZRRIFLE

spelly Tih-night save

into syeten except

"seeper ageat" hypo: t,

2013 sleepers in loons. Chira

would a 201 be opered in sleper?

competing

of susecy so. beng ate to keep track of sleeper

Change of stuper to An slal defecting to E. Humany spott cones in

If from relable sonce atating that sleeper is probeding into.

SECRET,

0001745

PAGE

COFY

NO.

of cr

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

Plans would take place is small room in I steff:

Irm must it signed by too — would ise put utt bs we te the say.

p. Tile would the held at

a at actor deck.

troyed accidig to guidelines.

Ie it presible for someose to have tott a 201 file i ts Zonal File?

RODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001746

15 0 20

---

## Page 6

ISAS

RA

-SEGRET

Recordo Aduinitration - helo diffe directents net u

- Burce Johion

records ses

I Giere Frattes

RID =

defunt designetin fo purt 1 Inf

Services...

Staff at handle

Ado record

ODA

PRODUCTION

PROIBITED

... -

ISS

Any Ys... Can call upon.

asristance..

But. do cin

deline e peone "

guiddline

But

RA cually

WOrk

informed... of

ho

decentrilice

Da TORRONE II

the other

filing syd

PUU

indin. di division Cier ane) spterns.

= for ita of Mecond valie

cintral.

recia Matriah might all jo into

file.

re special Correspondence.

6001747

PAGE

60s70

OOPY NO.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Precibel a Linitel

info

- highly semitive info

- lini feel distri

certain indivi

desiguetis

...a

a senior steff of icer

is mech

peL desiguation - deg corer sgar.

hostile territory

designation.

- thy plet

be uncommonto

would ao.t.

ass.

af this kind

10 8 15 yu ago, wl rope remitive

spections, the was retively common

* Pass: fur something to be so semitive

hi

is.... argued.

Et step has.

gone one accumulation

many yuu...

www.catehing.ng

Que names. in centrel index

pas to the ritu?

Perin cohere a.

Pre pile is hailine

to locate

- Last, deshap

see?

Could open 20r file wls

fiving indication

This, according

Joluson..

would to insportle.

0001748

SECRET

2 0 20

---

## Page 8

Frate

ipplian

-SEORET

wield be

20, file.

201-i need for a continuing interest

um. order to.

open. a.. file.

asicl

K6B

FROPSETION

Swell

counteri

ligence threat

→ 2a file would be sewe

whi mattes.... of dap.

...ir eccurate.

cemen. America.

given in Germany who is jiving inf

to... Russians.

To. locate where documents were

filed peior to.

bling. placed in

tra syn under

document. I

Tri?

in Ber is actually

sleeper wh. uph

opose taigned to him,

ul.is.

that his

mere opening tre tip we

→ Interageny are ragüt exists sis

Kvoids. pos.

> 1 ayacy hering same

igent

0001749

PAGE

01 20

COPY NO.

---

## Page 9

Graphics index a will not countain

routine plater of tourns a your

201 pils will. net merly contain

pictites.

See

nest

jage

centril

There is

inale,

did.

say.

Se retired

97410.

record purpose

for

for sal file not to contain

crypt.

But Bartow

"Th their thre wame.

201's are not opened

There

• no

REPRODUCTION

in powertongen

1e 201 fise

File, atten

their

subest fils- partic friget.

SECRET,

0001750

PACE

2021

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 10

inculued,

Project

files

SECRET

for ever prosed tate by

Agency, ide

propel run

another

Lie. DOD)

ive stall.

aver.

1.h.0l4e

EPRODUCTION

in creation of

deep cover!

- unles your slave to 000.

exist,

auch to deg cover programs d.

There is a central listing of

cryptongs From this list'

Tue home, the do To do fle

you get

1.

There is one.

still pesonned

Railed

EPRODUCTION

201.u

PROHIBITED

will

include

There

trie

deal.

SEGRET

filing.sgs

by

0001751

TICK

---

## Page 11

CECH

There is

aruel filing

projecs.

the

inuilued

. in.

stall dice or

indicating

Let oplantion

Continist

Care....

fic.

ContrA

agen

REPRODUCIION

DOOR DIU

e controlled by ciA...

agen

I...p asset May be the sette.

is not becly

.....

4

soure = provila finfe

asset - Kup coman wh in flivid

sexice....or.

info

Name ck. procen-procedure to barn whet

is known about

-involve a cli 4

here is'?

REPRODUCTION

220n.

files

PROHIBITED

int?

201 file...

if

not files are gusadly

Name

opening

L"1.

in.

reguzuce

are whom.

done.

True.

it.

his-l?)

winters

i.n.

00U1752

cryptonyus.

11_ 0= 20

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Theie is a

canticliver filig

trve name, pouedlinngon,

cypt,

+ 20i

= called

true

rotox,

LSec

filing

PROMIBITEOl y

dusl

tot

............ .. .. ................ .. ..... ... .. .... .

t •• • **••

...... w .

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

v0u1?v6

CECRET

RAGA

12 0s t0

NO

---

## Page 13

SEGRET

Frater

201

sübject- countries, flopecte

exist for all progers that cin

i!

sport

Finance

REPROQTETION

AlE be a capt file

Logistic -PRUt

tom bile, clothing, supplis

communication " tabbch

file on

able; microfitmed

security - security file; under pouchingue

persuad file on splice dajay augh on.

for agents z fils in flic

/ security

Overt

covert

big ate, 18-11.

of vec.

anything that he alos

wen Les

piages list re

1010 e

ie... wotig a dispatel

file.

medics -

styis. a

I steffer

agens PRI

they.

psych profite

can get it

training agent, ge sent offices.

ODp (lice li

data procesent to

GRET

6601754

PAGE

13 01₴

CCLY NO.

---

## Page 14

-EGREN

Stey Half

IA Brefing- Таплагу, 26.1918

Keeards Admen. Brach -

RIA → SWIM

REPRODUOTI

DAA

PROAIBITED

Le. sevrees. Staff - baly ADO.

ISAS - def. Septems Analysis Staff

Records Adoria: Brased

Can ire weld you any lure win any Ruleon, but anyore can

design. their our systems, proveding they inform RA's so that they

can montor compliasce.

Janely Feels Callection':

CTIU

Highly seniories fo

info. tends to the dwerted

from central nec

PRUMIDI

Findereres for heading i maintalsing secret bet not

yor completeng. "begot let" umphasis on limiting necess

brịt

SECRET

0001755

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

---

## Page 15

SECRET

p.2

Bob Bertave -

When did syater

start?

" Precited " inted Detibution (7 4): rei re fles bet it, commer!

"See" hypo: Quation could have seen so sinitive as to

re. kept out

of. feleng, indexing.

system, pritteulaily 10.15

ули адо..

fent offices; may shot dave

лен. reid. to

were assigned. dy KID 10-15 rs. 8

Hille were not degrated It," but were recruited" to confined

juredections...

Cryptonya arigament: part of IS. -Central Hop Scret ; hyptice Reference

steff

"Sleeper" would have to clave a cryptonym for sp. purpece. Muld

Net cryptoryn 4/201 # →

i: No name, not is STAR syster

Deera yu spenerg a 20 fle:

Some seace of contraung iteret Metter a a potential source, agent.

K6B Aficial -can de eter ba sentine or counter-intell, purpress

Could i otter to constit

ya sittR sister

Could are opened in respe

- Is.: I credible source ref

to some suspected 6в pre

201 could te opened in a mate of des, day o sees i someone

roguyd ufo. of segrefecance on part. person.

Files content clistag-supplessetal lesterg o STAR system

Untract susten of StAR: could dad pro seperaces to a part

document

SEGRET

0601756

of

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 16

SECRET

. p.3

Ack. trigg

• for detaclo

Act Sugg

Ref. Muzz

Catal Source Regater

Interageny Source Reguter: in Affect probably since beg. of CIA

ly lattiese Agrees) - docent melude regular perconnel- caly

assets - would the chased on the masses-wouldit coxtee sensitur sondes

201 files would not Meccasan

wisted, it may.

speeple deck

in a plotograph. Even if phots.

but may the x-ref. to a

POR

treples collection a ADI

Indir deck will collect plotes of persons of intereet

ontains photos of terrain, ate. Not particularly interested in geep ple, utte,

Yesting of accite-would the macaused in a waking mannes at

separate decks.

ĐDO would he sly place. Where there would the sere to this type

of lating

Буг large, no 201. yt.

aller there was an op. interest

prior. to employmes

offul Peonnel Hill

Opexing does. of 201 Spl

would contacn refs. to clara paper wheed

would maintained in See. Office)

the coveted; would

Emp. Under deep lover → Staff Ageat-dis celer would appear wader

his perudonyin.

Dost open 20's on predoryms, but could open one on cryptonyms.

0001757

SECRET,

PAGE

16 01 20

COPY NO.

---

## Page 17

CHEL

p. 4

Caly 1 copy of a 201 sple; may te a working feld copy

sweet files

tropet deles:

See Shegg

PROHIBITED

Reject file: operationd mignt. wend of a given project

A Adminictration

B. Support

C. Production

201 would chave info. or asat involved in profeet; profeet le's fo.

is re operation walf.

Operatical Detals

Cestral let of cryptoryns where they're registold - you can

watch the crypty with the tre name. He more seredtive the

net n operation → the more diffice it will te to get to tave name.

Bard file: affecal,

soft file: l

soft file would be

- anytag of record value in

ted is hard file

Project felle: Whe are appel, duin-making serds filed?

stars where worked,; superiors name; pe of work dose; walutions

Does not contain speefee operations is which cmplaye was tooted

c. 27

---

## Page 18

p.5

SEGRET

Employees

1. Ice offices- telligence offers

contact amployees.

SHABITE eat acts who are under

wet: someone from Whom tay can get wetel sevices, includi

Source: souce of nformation

ray of ordering alade. п.

Fundamectal

doe. In an agents 201 cele.

Mane check (= trace) process include dick of following

STAR brace

Travel files

office of Security

ODUCTION

Зошинавре

Also ds na kip

и адения

Regatir AM/ LASA Mame trace -

Heer dk hiet

0001759

SECRET

of

---

## Page 19

SEGRET

p. b.

leorge Fratas

Julied Files: countues

201 ties: indiese seeine.

BET UL

the o masach files on andits operatin

riginating in Anotte a.

Agent:

201.

Office of Securty

" Of turance:

It staff. nught have unfo.

Funace: autys, vouchers: recepte; will have a cryptonym file

roguties: support-autos, elating, itte. necessary to Mun operations

Communications: cables, telegrapis

Maintan a склохо. Wl

-O microfelin

Cables are. logged saV

жить, date, station

suerty : бензи

inder pedoryn if as agent

Started to elisinate

twe каже у и стренусе

dualifilig@mid.c0s

while

2 polla

- ach with the same #

Dout -tre nase Covert-paudonym- lited in under

would an agent over sperate mader a predayse

I If it has pedoryn → ile is in file

(lent)

Te name: Mog. data, ruelto of etchgre. check, secauty

volations y assignments

(covet)

Pseudonym: Corters wuything the ples ded lists where

SECRET CUliCO

of

---

## Page 20

SECRET

he worked, what is did, ate:

I as ageat, it would have a POA for walk profect the afeat

was vivoleed in.

If a staff under

a chet of assegnments.

PROLID

adles: Medual histories on all staffers; on agets if they cas get it

Psychlognal profiles

Training: Train agento, nges, seys, offices

Kur all tracki, elates.

Office of Data Pereiag: Put logether pease wed ty competer.

sentinel appliest for agesy it any.

all agency employe.

ADO chas clatrat

mde last

X-nife. tou mane, cryptoms,

pseudonyms $ 201 nembers

0001761

SEGRI

of

---

