# 180-10145-10409

## Page 1

180-10145-10409

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Russell August Langelle

Gengman

5-4-78

•SECRETI

Robert Genzman and Harold

Leap interviewed Russell August

Langelle at CIA Readquarters

on May 4, 1978.

- The intervieo.

yielded

la the polloring enformatio

September 1950, and worked

mainly sir SR? of the enviet

In November

1955 he resigned from the Agency

on the pretext that he was

disgruntled with his assign-

ments.

His CIA files would

have reflected this termination

have been

a memorandum from the Director

* Central Intelligence allan

Dulles, stating that Langell

would retain all rights and benefite

when he returned to the C/A.

(at present this document would

robably be in his persons would

file.)

11112574

John Maury (SE); Joe Bulik

(SR9), Quentin Johnson ( Caref

paration To King p,

SEGRET

180-1015 10400.

---

## Page 2

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

(Reports an

Le slate Departments Office of

Security

at the time of his resignation,

single Plied Sep employment

the interim he worked at the

Hecht Company.

on March 1956

he started to

work at the

state Department as a securety

Officer:

m september 1956 he

was sent to Vienna, where he

sarned a reputation for beir the

a strict Security Officer al

Embass pen use breached

liberately tougr

security, in order to build his

cover as a non- CIA foreign

service officer. Hes salary was

paid by.

the state Department.

The C/A Chief of Station in Vienna

and the Ambassador knew he

was with the ClA.

11112575

Langelle served as the security

fucer at the Moscow Embasse

rom Decemter 1157 lo sestemser

1959, In additions he was the

senior CIA officer there. The

CIA contingent in Moscow

consisted of five or six officers

ICT

---

## Page 3

Genzman.

5-4-78

SECRET

working inside the Embassy and

approximately four outside. Inside,

with deep cover, were George

P. Winters (Econ. Officer), FNU

Mahoney, FNU Venables, and steve

Washenko (Econ. or Agric. Officer

Outside were Jean Seberman (teacher

at the American @ school) and

three or four students, who handled

orientation projects rather than

operations projects.

Langelle handled CIA

communications in Moscow. The

CIA used State Department

channels of communication, but

could code messages by means of

me pad encrypting so that

lhe message was

secret until

it was forwarded to CIA head-

quarters, where it was decoded.

on 1959 the Soviets declared

fangelle perisa non-freakat: wet.

I result of his into

P. 5. Papor. Langelle was the

or it, the miltart d

intelligence. While making a

contact with Popor, Langelle

was detained by the KGB

and was questioned for two

and a half hours.

The KGR

attempted to recruit him, and

then released him. The state

SEGRET

11112576-

---

## Page 4

4.

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

aparlment filed a formal protest

but Langelle was told to have

the soviet Inion within three

days. He left the foviet Inion

in early Otober 1959.

f Jee: Harvey

Pangelle first ecame avare

heard an a

conversation that

a Marine had contacted the

American consular office in

Moscow to renounce his citizenshie

He later heard that this individual

had changed his mind and was

returning to the United states.

He does not recall the details

I there conversations, but he

believes they look place in the

United states.

11112577

Langelle characteriged Oswald's

defection as a consular case to

he handled by consular officers,

rather than an intelligence case

involving intelligence officers,

who were shorthanded in Moscow

at that time.

He stated that

the few intelligence officers in

moscow at that time were

involved in specific operations,

and did not perform general

intelligence functions. We also.

stated that intelligence offecers

at the Embassy did not rise

the consular officers for intelligence

stripurposes, and that there tvere

---

## Page 5

5

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

no CIA people in the consular

section.

Langelle stated that the

The military intelligence personnel

incheded. Leo Sulacki (Marines)

Paul Adams (Nary), John

Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman

(Army) . He did not know

whether Alexis Davison (Navy).

was an intelligence officer or

whether Davison was involved.

in angerkosty case. at when

Isevald left the foret anions

ho is the respinai i migration.

State Department, the.

and Naturalization fervice, an

the FBI.

71112578

When Langelle left

Moscow in 195%, Winters was

the senior CIA officer there;

Mahoney and Leberman were still

there,

and Washenko may still

have been there.

Langelle's

replacement as Embasay security

Opficer was fohn abdian cono

was not with the CIA. Abidian

was later replaced by Dugh

Montgomery, who was

successor

sentor CIA officer.

SLAAE

---

## Page 6

6

Garzman

5-4-78

SEGRET

was later replaced by

C/A officers in Moscow circa

1962

included Rodney Carlson,

Bill Worbaly, and possibly John

D. Demenadquarters the chief

of the Soviet Russia Division

was John Maury, followed by

Howard Osborne and then

Davil eegy to American

journalists in Mosçow, Langelle

had no contacts with R. G.

Korengoldo or alive Mosby,.

ded not know a. d. Goldberg.

and was contacted by Priscilla

Johnson for an interview after

he was declared persona mon

grata.

When sangeles.

11112579

returned to the

United states, he continued working

for the State Department, He resumed

his C/A duties on a part-time baris

in 1961, He dealt with communications

between Washington and Moscow.

In September 126) he resumed his CIA duties

on a full-time basis at headquarters. He

worked mainly in the forret Russia

Dursion, External Operations; Africa and

Europe. At present he is still with the

CIA and still paid by the stale

Department, but he plans to retire soon.

---

## Page 7

have

probably

Be in tiri

a rionel

files.)

1542 R

STORET

Sangelle

fangelo was born on October 71922

qis social security numbes is 495-18-8808.

Tie is married, with three children

Sangelle

Sto joined the CA

and worked mainly int

Петре раств, 1950,

Riciao Division. du November / 955 Re

resigned from the Agency on the pretext

Kat he was disgruntled with hi.

Hia CIA pile our

recede to terminat an emplayment.

The oly document to the contrary would

have been a memorandum from the

Directin 7 Central entefligence allan

Dulless stating that sit

tan all get and epit nois

in 1955. TRese included Jotn Marry

(SE), foe Bulik (SR9), Puentin

Johnson (Chieft of Operations), George

Kisevalper (sp), Frank Jerry, Ted

pollinge Sane

windschis fine

rick; on Ed Galloway, Seonard

Me Coy (Reports and Regurinent);

Pierre de silva (COS)

moone al lie die pained

office of decurity. SECRET 11112520

frAng Of te of the time of his

resignation sIngle applied for

employment weth the date Department

---

## Page 8

SECRET

Langelle handled C)A communicationa

in Moscow. TRe CIA used State

put ho arella memories ins

fore-pad encrypting so that the

massage was secret until it wa

forwarded to CIA Headquarters for

decoding.

11112581

SECRET

---

## Page 9

Deliberatel

tor build

his cover as

The lay pait of lie Set opera perce fier o

In the interim he worked at the Necht

Compasy: In March 1956 he bego

carlad to work it the totale Dealer

Sections a decurity Opficer."

noise in Seplember 1256, in Seplater

95 a de was sent to Vienna, where he

diliped the reputation

a stret leanity officer in

beringwas

Chief of slation

dilde in Vienna and

ambassados knew he was with

Par

the Can

He servedas the scarity

gelple

he served at the security

officer at the Moscow Emany from

December/95 to depters 1157.

An addition, he was the senior ClA

officer there, with fie or six

CIA officiss working inside the Semlassy

(Econ. Officar);

Venables, and

Tinisent]

Loungelle

i to American school) and three or

four studente, coho handled orientation

projects rathes. thap operations grgects.

SECRET

11112582

n 1959 819no the forets declare

l'angeli persona nox, grata as a result

Rio involvement with P.S. Popor.

L'Ange li tras the case officer for Popor

who worked for the Stores GRU;

Soviet muitary intelligence, Fangeti

hool see

stating

---

## Page 10

3

SECRET

i making a contact with topor,

fangelle was detrined by the KGB

and was questioned for two and a

half Rours, The FEEB allempled

to recruit him, than released

himp The State Department

so force to pretent, out fangella

within three days.:

Tangele jesst became aware

I See Harvey Occold when he heard

in conversation that a forma paris

Aad contacted the american consular

office in Moscow to renounce his

citizenship- He later heard that

this individual dad changed his

mind and was returning to the

United statess He does not recall

the detouls of these conversations.

but he believes they took plans

in the United States: 11112583

langelle characterized

Oscoald's

defection as a consular case to be

handled fy consular officers, rather

tRan an intelligence drse when

involving entelligence officers, who

were shorthanded in groscow at that

time. He stated that the few

intelligence officers in Moscour at that

SECRET time evere involved in specific

operations, and did not hartle perform

general intelligence functions. De

---

## Page 11

ind that there were no CHA tiplos people in

the consular section.

SECRET

left the soviet Union, was the

responsifility of the State Department,

the Immigration and Naturalization

service, and the FB):

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959.

Winters was the senior C/A officer there.

Mahoney and Leberman were stell there,

and Was henks may still have been there

Sangelles seplacement as Embasay lecurity

Officer was John Abidian, who cras

not with the CM. Abidian cas

latered replaced

Montgomery, who.

sismos ClA opiar: Montgomer

.was later

replaced by Paul Partler, who becarne

the first officially designated Chif

of Station in Moscow;

Otaen C)A

Mecers in Moscou arca 1962 includad

Rodney Carlson, Bill Warbley, anc

possibly John D. Hemingway

Militang intelligence

personnel

(720

Cong

at headquarters, the t

chue o the

Serviat Russia Division was, J0h

Maury, folloved by Howard Osborne

David E. Masphy.

SEGRED

11112584

---

## Page 12

6

SECRETI

State Dapartment: Heresumed his CHA

cuties on a partitima basis in 196/. He dealt

vith communications betweer Woshington and Moscow

On September 196/ he resumed his CHA duties

on a full-time bases at Headquarters.

He worked mainly in the sovietkrasa

Division, External Operations, africa

and Europe, Here present, at present

he is still with the C)A and is stell

paid by the state Department, but he

plans to retire soor...

11112585

SECRET

---

## Page 13

sangelle.

Russell August 10 ngeti

SECRET

Genzmar

5-4-78

10-7-22

495-18-8808

m

3.ch

ganguage, operatinal tmel.

ELA

SRDW. (SR1)

expesience, ralios., stabil.

Sep.50

towo word-disgruntled.

Nor: 55 resigned fhon ageney.

Sed. 012

oriet büildin

inemo from érector

ateri

all rightss benefits

Uuenna seendanely,

Moscous -Dee:57

..frta1=

che returnE

Necht lo

(Dulles)

seet 59

darled

15 knew

Plide

(SR9 - internalops

pagle all buricd

ghlos.componest

Mer, 8356

not astition

i conplest

aeensia

ocerasen

lept, 56

Direncos

firit C0S Feul Giriter

-SE-Jöhn Mawry

SRI Soe Bulick

ch.of gpsQuertinGokrson

Grase derfalher (op.) Kescialtor

Frank Lery

ed Pollin

rachaeindaen

Ture sworbuck

Ed Galloway.

11112586

Reporto + Re qureminte

Larrard Me loy.

COS Puerre de Filira

Dos Office of tecirity

1eso atepta not awore

moscou

- 5 to 5 officera inside

outside.

SEGRET

---

## Page 14

Langelles

Genzman

5-4-78

inside - i Werter, Mahoneg, Venaftes

Steve Washenko (Ceon. Officer)

outride -

Flan Seterman-teacher

3oi4 students -orientation

rather than operations

left in 59

abidián

reglaced

ty gugh...

Montgonery.

officer

SEBRES

took over flate

4/A

responsibilities enior

Gborge P. Winters - Econ. Off

Washenho -maye

agrec. tiel there

Mahoney + Seberma

PNG - agency geration

penetration or BRt-mil-intell

Pytar1@ipopor.agent

I''i was case off.

case compromised

got approval from Irish.

to bedrop - as steppeds

tried to recruit

peleased after 2' hrs.

said they would get in touch

state protested

PNG

11112587

Beck Is deS

-worked for state fan 60

handled state Dipt dites

+ agenty functions

---

## Page 15

sangalle

3

George

SEGMET

Genzman

5-4-28

(Perfousky)

moved back to CIA

on pull-time basis Jgst.6)

(00458 - Sept 59)

Mähony. GSA officer:

Communicato - Mon to HQ

SR9 Jack Maury

Wintento remained

<HO.

i coversations a consular officer said Marine.

renounced eitizenship.

coalfe ina

consular off. would bring it to your attention

Misscalper- in Bestin, handled Popor while

in E. Bettin't Urenna:

- handled Tenkosky

- maybe Rosenho

11112588

Used State communications

one pad encrypting.

SEDNES

---

## Page 16

Sangelle.

I Angeli

Genzmian

5-4-28

¿JA people is consular section

mil. intell.

Paul Adams Vau.

Ted Hottman an

Munion

Mundan You.

Dulacki Mar.

would have been contacted

Korenged - no contacti

Sohnson- asked for interview of ter his PNG

Moaby no contacts

Gredberg-didn't know

Davison - doesn't know if agency

not involved in Peat, to his Krouleage

dip. personnel could not se used for intel. without

prior approvel from State.

provocations.

atarmotone

11112589

Naval aviator

atsugi - 53-55

SECRET

---

## Page 17

: Langalle

L angeli

SELES

5

Genigmar

5-4-78

62

Hugh Montgonery (senior)

Joke do Wemingway (?)

Paul Garbler (COS; replaced Martgone)

Rodnes Carlion

Bul Atarbley...

No commo souve register coith mil. + Moscow

63-S'R SR, Chief of External: Opa.

africa + Eus.

Still paid by state

FSR 4 in MoscoW

6513 - Moscow

David E. Murply - Chief of SR Die.

60: 64-65

cos in Bastin during

Popor oposation while

'Q in Moscow

them Maurg

pollared by Howard Osborne

murphy

11112530

SECRET

---

## Page 18

5

SECASTI

He believed that the militar

pegele at the entry military inteller

contacted about Cowald's defection.

included

Paut Shagge

Dulachi (Marines), Paul

Minson

did. not know p

talligence then The Tonoosty case, whether

With regard to American

inaliste in pose tanglengl

or alive Morty; did not know

2I Got noon sette t

7 and was contacted

ly Priscilla

expateor for an interview after

he was declared persons non

grata.

11112591

SECRET

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Winters

120.61

Langene

Mahoney

-Rt.l

30-61: 11<4

/riseliG2 = 200p.63 montgonery-

ostarne 70 Jean

355-4650

asune 62-143062 Rodney Callion

'ful 63, 31Qug 65 Edward Gotcher #Q

annual lave til May

11 Dan 63, 18 gar 66 Jasry Pretin

HG 2p.m

May l3

C/SR

forr Maury

IDee 54-29841.62

3704 Farr ave,

Fairfoss

Howard g. Datorie

30jul 62 15 8pt63 alty John Debelus

948-6721

David E. Murphy

1537 Forest

168pt63-10Ma ailla ane, Netear

67

355-7523

11112592

SEGRET

---

