# 180-10142-10078

## Page 1

180-10142-10078

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1:2 - 4:35

NOTES

Interview - Dave Phillips

8/23/78. at HSCA. offices.=

5 Pen by 12H,

Tonge t

letter reminder.

lachuza

hew, bethel? not through

him met Lif.

sick thing Ruthl, boss.

Cogamell ringo bello but!

didA BAY- no recall-probably.

(clients) few AMBAR MOTORS

EL.MUNOO

Berlitz. School:

i legend to cho sugat!

pipes

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

142-0078

---

## Page 2

name very familiar

Darnell- no recall

guy

Valle - no recall

travelled @trie non

docume

document a fate passport

Pan Um. Bank ops/assets:

no recall.

---

## Page 3

Notes -Hedway intennews of Dourt Phollips

4. OffICe Of G.R. BlAKey-ASCA

8/23/08-1:20p.m → 4:358.4.

CIA HAS NO OBIECTION TO

DECLASSIMIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS COCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

3 fam 61.5163

prizecto: actor

Let en Curtai

hid ant wall hot great per categ

dad anti Calan on caviti Sorest Gecia

fer I want someone (a cogn cour alo

me peone lyn the t l electer

meet other lent not tell then

- at bat one case of an criticall

Im deep cors, stone the we tal tho

Propagandas mate rteise the Esty

4. tient repartie to

say sup u.....

And. Mock told i. Kadio Swan

---

## Page 4

it ban. setty to reget cory tome?

of he folt he work lake a betle emergat

dentista a specope, fenda,

Da ingazue il uns possing the

the rechein fit to we was the (Gibralte

Te e en lato scate placemet

Re Cala shop- Tock man fon Ton Meglett-

Wo tork ore dover the Balen Slang - spacial

a Bexan Ciaorcante uose radio st. auler be

= a debrefaz carter; te.

Ne: o un superios reparto dera,

to Ww Sorth (rol. "quate gono! )

---

## Page 5

On up on any found protect, lens.

I deal dide to colegate. com; But

my nome went be on many paper

rei lean.

Strong on CI-Ence really under dea

as "average,

Cuten section? Pababy ten then aler age

dealt with Cale better de-Croe a

25al in ente to tense del.

trips a a special lose

I mind reports.

Yes, they le water an Are in

contact wits freigh conten

> Dart for if there was Montee conta repat

to are than -aid as an Aren

---

## Page 6

The reason for C1: repenty BHO Just

mit ta that if car or thee

"field. tacos woul uclue fBI so wel

" Pet would here Glen rate fill Army

to rapert who comt the attent - torter.

28 Came Can sounder to do tame tha report?

Ho, spillater the a recite pittented

→ Yo, recall tahiy notion - he story of

the doten on an- At in carters bet moh

wither a ape fic regust.

2 Did. CI. shave assets and upwat with FS,?

I dirt Bran if their were ouch Done.

But there kan Gardwah on rall op

haghe Anna (054541

trachment to letten, a lot if been Cli

oh. feels she in sen out

One down to seen hes?

---

## Page 7

7

hanna Cavelle )

2e Heft:

Warren Come - 304 zam spent sent

q the hom with then Set a sage.

day 1st sten

Salvia Demonia Chant thie tea of

amund all. Go on a start e

the the again.

We has not were ita

The barto.

send with anyone.

Re

Starson's reporti never

with Jachuga-" he one ens ler na

m on this apertia.

been condied. -

- Her 301 fil worle bee "very thick"

Ordy o docin. " That could be sery seprizeng."

• Bota trace ren bout come up with a lot

I can Jachuga 3 tumn ofts o l Cuba.

joke in as glome up for tien had for hosted.

Margot 7 Drag Onda 4'64

when he has Lany luch at a fong st

War. Bun, Elang

---

## Page 8

so Deson: Don't think there te

amy. viles abalt, there.

Not more fany piter-

an Amencons? Dent Pree.

"re to sales no dist It coy freder tall to her.

"Camit tell your withy they tims to Can it

Then cuhy.".

Want aware that barren Can Constel

to talk I Deran

Borste - then him well- Somewhere

Mangal, dis renter to Bed a ae

Access $ 4115005-006 bint his see.

Scarty here then one on the Dotty araphy,

I Kept very rematine Material to tap of ta t

11 Tens no hot famelen wres Greeting ..

→ Ngand a vage stor that someone beet out t

found a lat of documents offer. he dead-

is tors 8138-1222 chief f Carte to DEI-

- belies to home was LUNA -

→ Jes, did man to DEl actuater there -

"Cultural offices

14. Gutique pure to, i remander name-

next. to i fration

---

## Page 9

9

Drests Buellers Very Reiz bagel, tombar

Rodre Bape- Yes.

Manal Vaga- Conside be Chef DGI

Jusa. Oslesson Jamala

- Mesall- Familia

• Aque - the Corneil - To My Brolease

he ver Sent Colon bitell gene:

recall in what artest

Caldron C141 - 006 Bras l dest

were sand them or colt with them!

There we sevent attent t pitted

Re Gol A repart. 8. 28 fone 63-

Jo, probably did see it -

memo pon Carlos Blanco a home nade up a the perpen dolt

per what the dodent is -

-re Juira Caldem" Jo, el remanta" Se

might have bin the arguet who wanted for the

---

## Page 10

Dispaton 3.715 - 0

1 Sezt. '63

term.

"damela explostation.".

hoe #: 3665-106640 telt mades

1 altern?

3290- Thinh I'se von this droment

the arrosenation.

(hat did Mes City sun do to pllow up an that:)

mnclunded.c

hatte, en ses on to abenten:

1 M, dont recal any specifie follow-op

re calderon?.

---

## Page 11

thing one to plan up-.

# 3212.

- Teres Snonza- thats the

gay el remande be an ho toler

prey a common a dangero -

I know In reason like the she cost

med: 08225210410

#3714- le Jeremy 1 Teresa Pole, an

drill how thy the bas free-

operation, night have been dinner

AT Tera.

Proenza

- but still thanks the person with a

percent fa antique jewel, do a han.

Don't recall that kep Ch of codloped

any. if the 110 ban done wee

anore chu at Colon Ellery. Chan DoqueY Desan

commento - "Dent stuke duey bello."

Don't recall any such document.

trong un a lestion dont recel if that

was pact or disha metion..

It we have be pete for an agent a test.

Go he seen out of til the station

have been fuercons..

---

## Page 12

but it could You bea posabe i prete

"statue oper iter..

13662 - 207 avare fit - It' the Band

Barney Hedad,

go sto do.

a pitch to lee man for someone

artside of Mexico.

2 It was some one from the CIA

there want to something a te 200 1 fell-

- bert passell, I corder be seen out

go salt file -

→ Her as explanation of why Calleran

francript un fourd a Gould

file and hat lu ten 201 file -

Ne contras of Calan emory: Still Members

4 positives & photos at Colon commelate-

3 "stink bomb.".

nation there case, elin

sony tory, some stud bout operator,

but don's recall,

file rese indiates Camera Junctioned fu 5. day.

te wasnt. there a

a demy that time

---

## Page 13

13

Annie Goon gaster nt real of te

began t Call entros-

2 Lot 20 document.

I so, al do not recall it — (Cost

It hame ben dome o not be h. files)

Ils technis , possible has been done

on orcastien ly persuasing tele phone

commentators to use tel.com aste (4@19

septem) - but dont recall it

= fes.gney newswed book - let no

substantial change regard Obunla

to croperation - concerns his crist a Florida-

• hot avare that his request caused such o

There's no.tay

le con fund them weth out

---

## Page 14

14

The 's no sch a disre heray

Diesen Shaft fund -

There a proper called "dentepmental".

o a lot of ronly a there bout been the mlly

Fad to chaand for the

, Cant rements harmy such a

Jund that el adian if han e

I did not partropate im any bangang,

to spread disinformation after the

campaigne

'Don It Amar y Any hard Encenes a 1963

poing to Castro.

→ Went to Cala u amn f'58 returned

but went on Contract -hat staff ate t40-

Chat offen that it an

ad. Loc

stuff se that lad then taper

stuff sent aut t provencia reumpage-

s nectags 1 anti-Carts prople-bust

Que me home meter a ful

Jobo dent recall - no rebst ate

dealing?

---

## Page 15

15

Wed tope Fond thees

= Mos Bey Muy Co.es

8K Cliento: "

-pulon Motoro ceres a El Mundo,

D en Arreca Ortega unto invented leguece

el un faund, a atre- ham de

foralia-

Danall nat that elrecall-

a play bazette -

•Roberto Vale) autt here de -

EsculT the han

unto los sensetue -

→ ner han a faled paroport-

Capable sited-dal trow Lou

that hechar in workea

lit ofter book come back

---

## Page 16

- 20

- Cathere Foundate to -

3 ho Calan. Aid Reliff -

> defreefy conter lat get the

product fon. it. -

- Cacle have bee sean bar. Army -

---

