# 198-10007-10013

## Page 1

198-10007-10013

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10007-10013

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS

CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA

CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERRILLAS

AND ARMS

EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL

AND CULTURAL MISSIONS

STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY

CAPABILITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Draft report concerning control of access to and surveillance of

Cuba.

NO STATE OBJECTION

Department of the Army EO 13526

A Declassity

• Exclude 5 Exempt

Authority_

• Refer TO -

Review Dare NOIS BYLUM Gala

v.9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

DRAFT

SE

206 1 coptes

GROUP I

"reluded from automatio

"grading and

-classification

1. Control of

Trave to end fren

Sentra, Intelleance Agener

a. Developed highly unfal infomacion on Frequency

of Cuban "chartered" flights to Draall, nancs and nattonalities

ol pansengers and crew, and las monoures of control followed

by Brouillen authorities. Tensmitted this Information to

dation chiefs in tho Lotin Anertcon countries of the non-

Brasiliens travelling on these flighte.

B. Maintained close watch over trovel to end from

Cabe-

See Arnen & for table of know Cravel of Latin Anericans

during July and August.

c. As n result of lafornation furoshed by hin by the

did Scolios in Buenos Atres and vich

Indiested that he would make

every effort to prevent Argencine delegates

tron attending the

Intemational Unton of Architecta Congreso ta Havasa.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and tha Imbassy

the Bolivion Miniotes of Interior Iscued in mid-July an order

probibiting the granting of travel permits to Cube on other

bloc councries to Bolivian nationale.

SPERET

NH 50955

DocId: 32424006 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Partly as a cocult of the efforts of the CIA

santon la Sanciago, the Covermene of Chile prohibited tha

entry into Chile of organtzers of the Cuban sponsored Secoad

Jatin Arerican Youth Congross, which hai Bean acheduled to take

placo in Sanctago

in August. Thie me one of the factors which

led to postponezent of CheCongresa,

&. After conniderable prodding by the CIA Station

and the Sobassy the Minteter of Fubllo Security of Costa Rica

a presented legislative proponalo to che Gosta Rican Assaubly

unich vill require all persons intending to travol to Commies

countries to have theis travel approved by a newly created

Costa Mean occurty agency.

E. CIA Station fa Mazice City devoloped Inforation

conceming the clandestine encivel of passengers in Vera true

on Cuban merchant shipo. NEforts are being nade to obtain noze

infomation and to encourege atriever controle by the mostcan

authosteles.

Versz taent on Scoce

Knotructed Embandy Conkay to try to parounde

Gutnean outborities to deny une of atrport facilittes by flights

on labana-loscon route. These effacts achloved a temporary

Wthholding of periosion for future regulas flighto, at least

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424006 Page 3

---

## Page 4

watst such cine as the loviots develop their own rofueling lacilittes

at contry:

Instructed Enbasey Blo to appzoach Brazillan

authorities to exprose our deey concern at the growing froquency

or Cuban nor-schedulad flighte to Broats and roquest their

cooperacion in curbiog them. Alao instretes our Embasstes

In several Latin Anortoan countries to vort with Ca station

shiefs in furniching the names of nettonale of those contries

travelling on theoe flights to local anchorities and urging

chen (1) to inocleate tighter controte on thatz ona cicizens

cravelling to Cube, and (2) to exprese their concern to the

GOVERNMENT

Bzartl 4ver Cuban use of Brazil an e wuy stetton

for craneporting subvereives.

€. Ao a result of reprosentations made to the Britiah

goverment about Cuban flights to tho Gayuan Islando carryins

Latin Avaricon subversives, the Bricteh developed an airinetrative

schone which sill offocciroly prohible the use of Ariciah

Caribbean dependoncies by Cubana

Las transit polnts for passengoro..

The Battleh Intend to sequize tranalt visas of pansengers pacstes

through thate arno, and to reject applications for such visas

encept in certain apecial cases.

Persoss not posseseing vicas

would be prevented from leaving their atrosaft, or would be

NH 50955

DocId: 32424006 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SE

zeturned to thoir point of origta.

d. Inneructed Enbasey Mexico City on Auguet 29 to

Infor the Menican airlino CNô that tho Unteed Scates 1s

opposod to a proposal that Cn oporate charter flighte to esary

refugens fron Havana

scated thic they hail no intentton of procoeding further wich

thie project.

Inscructed U.S, Minatons In Curacco and the la gue

to investigato @ roport that full sas plening to senew ab

oohoduled Cumacao-latana flighte and to zelcerate IS opposition

so comptios of air senioe to Cuba, KLi acoured our tabassy

chae there to no plan to initiate service, scheduled or sou

schetuled, to Habans.

£, Inocructed Babansy Octave to expross our 00r00g

objections to a proposal that o Cubons charter flight pick up

a second group of U.%, studente in Montreal to fly then so Caba,

The flight me noe outtoriaod,

Instruaced Consolato Ccorpatoun to Lovestigate

Cubang approaches to secure (21got Kacilittes, Mlesion reported

on Auguce 3 that the Governor had no knowledge of any talls

between the B,G. Minlatry of Commicatiens and the Cuban Gover

ment regarding landing righto for Cubans planes.

The Covernor

NN 70953

DocId: 32424006 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(mitentod hlo Antention to Anoutro further and to keap Na

sovioed, nados roported thas mateher the Cubsa nor the Izitish

Cutone Covermonts had rained the isove of landing eighte vich

AM C

Do Urged to saver

n00c8

of mentor, Canada, Jaratea

end the both

melanie to refuso

to asslot the Cuban governsens

In too etfon to liad i short route for zaturothe so Auertean

stalents sho Allotiy Bruvolted to Cro, Also Infored Pan

Anertem Minays that to vero epposed to e Cuben sequent for

a PAl charter fLight to fly tho studento from Habana to How Yort,

1. Instructed our blastone at Port of Spoin and

Barbados on soveral oconsions to appenach these fovernmente

apress the concer of tho U.5, at Insteactone of Cuban Interces

ta the une of thete aviation fee111ties.

Enhoody Fort DI Spota Alecuased with the Foreiga Secretary

ol trinidad vartous logal, moves avilablo chas mold cable

cort to control novenents of alecraft nithin their toritory,

cittng emuples of such controle Instituted by Morteo, Careda

and trolent. le indienced recapetvances to che proposal chat

cho 1366 of sussectiono be sade avaitable to the avtation editcialo

concerned

J. Durtas o provous roporting pertod Embarsy Canttago

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424006 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

muni too govertune of Chile to refuse visas so Cuban delogatês

to a proparatory neceing planning. for the I! latin American

Touth Congrase scheduled fot Auguot in the Chilean capital,

Inability of Citin dologates to obtata Chile vinas for this

meting ts one of ths contriburiag factoro to the Cuban sponnora

announcing during Auguat that the meeting had beon postponed.

l Sont genoral lostructions to our minedons to countalea

which parcicipate in the Intemattoml Inion of Architoots acting

then to urga the cooperation of sovermental authostties An

preventing on Alocouraging the accentance of thete cicizons to

the VII TTA Congreso In Habana, Soptentes 29-Detober 4, 1963.

Pollowed this up vich tracettons to individual poste to try

there fossible to Clacude architecte From fras 10rld conateles

from serving on the Jury for the selectten of a Boy of Pige

% Degod Canadion Covesment to block a plan to

commence fond parcol shimmente to dela, on a camareial baote,

that monte have requined the ostbitsten of scheduted vectly

charter flights by Canadten planes.

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424006 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

2. Correl

Lanies:

Gener

Remonding to the urging of the CIA Seatton polfee

of the State of Gunabare seized lazge quantities of propo-

gande brought Into Brail by passengers on the spectal Cubána

¿ligate. For excole, son 50 pounde of printed propagada

vas talen from the various postengere sho arrived on the 16

Anguat Chbane Slight.

3. Soutrol of Clandeerine More

Gentllas, end Aras

302200€

Defence

0• Continued nurveillance of the acco surrounding Cuba

during the ponto of July at tho sone rate and vice the came

emphaste do peter to 1 aly 1953.

b. Contimed to mlacain U.S. Forces, oxinartly fron

vichia the Allentle Gumand, evileble to assiet other Caribbesa

soverments ta the intercoption of suspielous crafe in

torricoriol mtoro, as might bo requested. No suct requesto were

reccived from any other goverment during the perlod covered by

this soport. Erever, U.!. Forces did toey track of the

Location of the Soviet merchmt freighter WITCHINSE, which

NH 50955

DocId: 32424006 Page 8

---

## Page 9

não suspected of carzying surventvee and ema fron Coba to

Britis Culane la nitJoly, MITCAURIISE vas under U.S+

serene tron tro departure fron Hevena til United

Kingson forces assed the tack of leaping this ship under

surveillance upon ic0 epprotch to Georgetown, Brittab Catana.

Subsequency, Brittab polleo surch of NIICHURIUSK in Urtink

Gulane paters zevealed nothing of a suspielous nature.

Senscal, Intellence Arency

At the ropeated urging of the CIA Statton in Lima

the Feruvian Governont lab in Augst pebitated e new anti-

terrociste law providing a penalty of no lese than five years

imprisomont for percona who percielace in cerrilla activitice

on in the illagal manufacture of verpons or explosives.

The Pezuvian National Incelligence Service is working

on a lead furnished by the CIA Stotton in Zine concerning a

200 ton vessel reportedly tavolved in one craftle.

Hazarenent of State

Instructed our Consulate Genoral in Georgeton to

invastigate reporte that comerctal cargoes (which could conceal

111toit arms traffte put of Caba) had davelopod betwen Beltish

Cutana and Cube: Investigations to date bave been nagative.

SECREE

NH 50955

Do01d: 32424006

Page 9

---

## Page 10

4. Senteal of Trenser

mont of Stere

Cooperated with the Foreign Assate Control Office of

#Be Treasury Deparinent: In developing blocking controle with

respece so fuza whtch went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5.

Letaneo

6* Contioued the Intollation of nilitary communice.

Elope Encilities in Latin Anorice, Operationni detes for the

mict-chamel radio etetions to be Inotalled in Managuas

Nicerague and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15

Cetaber 1963 and 1ß December 1969, reycetively because of now

engineering and controctual zoquiznente: legotiations are

concining vito Colonbia and Ceuador Coz Installacion of U.S+

mIlitory readte facilities: Completion of a now coretal trang-

isthnian cable in the Panana Coal Lone within the coning noath

te empented to improve military comantcations within the

United States and the Camander-in-Chlef, 0,%. Souther Cornand.

b, Contimed the our illance of Cube by U.f, Forces,

reporting as before to U.8, commanders, organiantiona and agencies.

NN 70953

Do01d: 32424006

Page

10

---

## Page 11

SROBET

to 110) s

Reporte of curvellence lavo been alasoninated to elt tho have

• regulzeront to kaow+

Establlshed « 14 hour per dey, 7 days per wet duty

maech at the 0.5, Mllitory Groupe fa the Caribbem comteles in

conjunction with Impionentation of the willtary alorting byacen.

Contlaued efforts to scott the D.5: Souchem Gomind Intelligence

Center with properly elend, tratred persomal (thie center te

the mlicory focal point for zeloying inforuation concerning

the memne of subversives). Filled, parctally, the auchorized

billots in the U-5: Soothorn Comand Intelligence Conter and

took under constderation the problem of on increase in the billet

structure in the Center. The Corater-in-Colet, U.S. Southeca

Conand together wich bis Intelligence offtoer vlaited Honduras

and Nicaragus end datemined that no signitcant problems exteted

which would intontero vict etsective oporatione an those

countries.

¿. Action previously initiated by the Comuandez, U.S.

Naval Forces, Southen Cormine (CONUSAYSO) to establish a Saall

Craft: Inspectton and Training Tear (SCLATT) as e contribution to

the Carilbean Surveillence System le proscensing satiatectorily:

SACHEL

NH 50955

Do01d: 32424006

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Perunent eroigment of V.S. Coast Quord personnel to SOLART

in tha Coal Zone has been approved and the J.S: Const Cuned

has talen eppropriate liplencating actiont.

e. During the pertod of this report. the SCIAT con-

ductod

an on the job training cousse at matsrones, Cosca

Mca, Traintre noe sivon to 19 morbere of the Gradia Civil

of Costa Rica she vere esther pavly assigned to the 40 Erot

Coast duard antlley boats (CCUDo) or me to be asstened as

replacenent crew menbers

to A quarterly inmpection md evalention of the cetss

provisod other: Central Anerteas countries mas conducted during

the period 17 to 31 August by s mobile craining cean (12x)

nade up of SCIAIT personnel.

8+ Contiaund ettorce to inprove the toteroal seculty

of Latin Anozican arntos through the provieson of Intelligence

Advisors: Presently there aze such advisora assigned to l4

latin countries; emphasizing counterintelligence and counter

subverslon*

h. Duriag the reporting period WIts conducted training

in counteringency for the amed forces of Colmbia, Bolivie,

Venozuale, Peru and E1 Salvades-

NH 50955

Doold: 32421006 Page 12

---

## Page 13

12m

In GIve Astion NETo were pant to Cuatenale, Bolivia,

Colombia, EL Salvador, Jantee and Ecuador:

6. Exchane of Intellinence on Cuban S

Incellerase Meney

CIA Scations throughout Intin Merica continued in a

soat najority of countries to funial to che local lateral

securley orgentanctone wich whon they aro in liaison dalorm»

cion conornins travelers to and from Cube, ne well as such

intermacion as cone to ClA'o ettention concering the noverent

od funds, ars and propagande natectal. In mery instances, the

fumithing of information to the Intomal security sorvice by

the CIA Station was paralleled by the furioling of eintler

informacion to the forelen office by tho Arbossador or hie

reprarentatave. Tao respense to tbis Inforratton hos varied

sreatly. The Contral Aperten countrtes, lo general, began to

pay attention to the information and take action on le. At the

duriag the reporting pertod

ottar extrane,

the Brasilim Coveronent/shored little Ioclination

co follow up

Information.

Beltezeted to the Foreign Minister of Feri our

Interest in having

the facts of the Puerto Maldonado Ineldent

Nt 70953

Do01d:32424006

Page

13

---

## Page 14

brought. to

the ancantin of the lAS, und arged thee this detien

be taken so coon as possible.

b Ungod tho Coverment of Cuntconle to cubnie evidonoe

of commise setivley

74 Ex

cho QAS *

Minican

Bestone-

653020l. acallinence Ansary

to he filled in hy I. Whale)

10933

D001d: 32424006

Page 11

---

## Page 15

Space

Instructed Ambansy Is Pas to follow up closely on

charges of involvorent of Cuban mlosion in Interal polletes

at the Intensy's discrotion;

to point out to

Bolivien officiale tho opportunity for a poseibie brock in

zelations wich Cobo. Embassy La Faa nas not tble to press.

for a break men the ovidence of Cuban Intervention did not

provo to bo to conclusive de criginally repoctad.:

S* 20

an Anscial Astlone.

SOON n2022

#. Obtainod action by the 60S on July 3 on to Levalle

Comictee Beport tremniching the document to the stemmente

and unping thas to inplemen the spocktle and general recen

mendastone contained therein as soon as possible:

k. Through: Embasoy Managuo Infomed sho Nlocriguan

Coverment of the mattare untch we wnted to have conattered

dozing the informal conting of the linlocers of Becucity mad

Intonios of the Isthntas comtetes hold in lanegna, hugues

26-20 in preperacion for the cacond fomal meetlog of the

Managia Jocurity Conference countetes later this year-

SIGNER

NH 50955

DocId: 32421006 Page 15

---

## Page 16

415-

most

Chec

President Schlet of Nearague in the

that the Tacloaz Tect Ban Tranty Ald not

attitude tovard Castro has elbered in the

slighters; ad atrased ou fateese in sceing atoady progress

by at the lscholas countries fin

impionsociag the recomends.

cious of the Mmague Securtey Conferenee So block Cuban

subvereive estorte:

d. Taplatood In detail the nature of the Cuban chreat

and the related policy objectives of the 0-5+: duing couvercar

elon ta London and 1a Washington wich Mr. Aden Watcou, Revly

appointed Brttish Anbnasador to Cuba.

Is tend Stater Interesas Araner

a. The Agoey*s press service during the reporting

period cemenitted 12 arttelos, commenterted, and backgroundens

on its wireless file servico So ISLA posts throughout Latin

Anerica for placemont in the local nompapero and the Volee of

Anesten Spanish broadcaste to Latin Americe carted & total of

26 conentertes and features on the subjeet of Cabar-baced

subveraton to eddition to the roguler mporting of developmente

3a the hourly nevacaste.

1

SECREE

NH 50955

DocId: 32424006 Page 16

---

## Page 17

# 16%

Do In rooponce to orending Agency lancructime to alve

(pecial astoneton to devalopante solated to Cuba-baned

pubvercion; U5tS posso ta Latia Aperica vero pronoc in reporting

inedoents and in providing editosta, comments fron the Lecin

American pross, 011 of vhich mo urad to the Agency's radto and

pEess outpute

Tho nata developments trentod in the Agenoye tadto nd

prass coverage included Castro's July 26 sposch unging revolu

tices fn Letto Anerica, the liccovery of termelot snapons

factories la Grayagull, the Boundoconn Vico Praident's secreton

Of Cuban responthilley for tororien, the statenst by State

Department Press Officer Richerd Phillips Chae "potencial

outvernivo agenta" frin Cuba to tho Curibbon area vere porcing

through Gem Cayman, the expaleion of a Bolivian youth leader

for tocolving funio Ero Cula, Castro traince tercoriste 1a

and

Bondurer»/Bolivlas protoate ogatose nodiiing by the Caben Fobaasy

is the minor's scrite. A Volce of Anolen roving reporter in

Letin Anertes provided beveral coporte state tea on the.

subvezelas ploture in countrios he vlelted.

E: La support of tha Agency'o effort en Cuban-based

subvorstex, the publicationo center in Mexico begen work on

Nt 70953

DocId: 32424006 Page

1T

---

## Page 18

-47»

three pauphiots during the pardod based on Caetro*o

report of

hi: violo to tho Soviet Inton (showing that he contradlated

himself in occo of bia namvigine clains of Soviet progreso) ..

tho losseo outferod by Cuban labor under Castro, md the fete

of political pelsonere in Cuba. When completod, thene parpniece

will be reproduced and atstributed in gumtiay throughone the

50955

DocId: 32424006

Page 18

---

