# docid-32404395

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10331-10266

RECORD SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

STAT

FROM

WILLIAM BURNS. EXEC SECR STATE DEPT

TO

NORA SLATKIN. CIA

TITLE

MEMO: JFK ASSASSINATION RECORDS: RELEASE OF CIA

INFORMATION

DATE

PAGES

02/02/1996

1

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

ARRB ISSUES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-16 : F12: 2000.02.10.10:46:32:937044.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55360 Date: 05-01-2022

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10266

NW 65360 Docld:32404395 Page 1

---

## Page 2

іЙТЕВ 06 '96

11:30AM

P.3

ER 96-0335/1

9601424

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

February 2, 1996

SEC

I.O. 12958 DECL: 1.5 (c) and (a)

MEMORANDUM FOR NORA SLATKIN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records: Release of CIA Information

(0)

The Department of State supports the CIA's request that the

President exercise his authority to postpone disclosure of any

document related to the assassination of President Kennedy which

would implicate high. Mexican officials in joint intelligence

operations

against

foreign embassies in mexico city.

The

Department shares the CIA's concern that such disclosure could make

Mexican

officials reluctant to engage in joint intelligence

activities.

the Department also shares the concern that disclosure

would lead

to a curtailment or complete shut off of information

from several on going sources. tS)

In addition, release of this information would damage US

relations

Mexico

and It

could

also have unfortunate

repercussions for us relations with russia, especially during thi

heated period of their presidential election campaign. Finally, as

a matter of policy the

us government does not confirm that it

engages

in the

monitoring of telephone calls from diplomatio

premises here or abroad.

Release of this information could subject

then 45 and Mexico to strong criticism from foreign governments.

(st

William J. Burns

Executive Secretary

CLASSIFIED BY:

Jennifer E. Sims,

INK/DAS/IPC

REASON: 1:5 (e) (d)

SECRET

NW 65360 Docld:32404395 Page 2

---

